To be good at the game, you need a reasonable level of intelligence.
The management are bringing in a new IT system.
a training session for teachers about computers
A vote for us is not a wasted vote.
Viewpoints such as these are strongly challenged by environmentalists.
The crack in the wall is caused by the ground settling.
a game against their old rivals, Manchester United
She received the house as part of the divorce settlement (=the amount of money, property etc each person receives in a divorce case).
claims that ministers had misused public funds
a royal welcome
People are now calling on the chairman to quit.
He mentioned that he was having problems, but he didn’t explain.
Mr Smith has walked straight into a trap laid by the Tories.
The hotel has its own pool and leisure facilities.
It would ease my mind to know you had arrived safely.
Now you mention it, I haven’t seen her around lately.
Dealing with people is the most important aspect of my work.
After lunch, Carey challenged me to a game of tennis.
I recommend that you get some professional advice.
those people eligible to claim benefit
federal taxes
This gives a first-hand account of the war.
I’ve always had a weak spot for chocolate.
What will the job involve?
The US has not yet exhausted all diplomatic possibilities (=tried everything possible).
military equipment
a rather severe red-brick building
The window display caught her eye.
Do you have to reserve tickets in advance?
Supporters of the treaty say that it will be necessary to have the United States on board.
I’ve been flat on my back with the flu all week.
One likely source of energy is wind power.
I’ll now try to define the term ‘popular culture’.
an error message
I was pleased, but somewhat embarrassed, when she pursued me.
High profits do not necessarily imply efficiency.
In the dining room, team photographs were ranged along the wall.
I know you really like him, but you don’t have to be so obvious about it.
The musical talent on display is extremely impressive.
Most athletes reach their peak in their mid-20s.
In an ideal world there would be no need for a police force.
an odd way to behave
The health service spends too much on administration.
a romantic comedy
a generally accepted view
The luxury car market has collapsed.
a police interview
Hold on one moment while I transfer your call.
After several delays we finally took off at six o'clock.
It is vital to keep accurate records.
Officials at the school say they received a bomb threat at approximately 11:30 a.m. today.
He took advantage of me when I was at my most vulnerable.
An elastic waist makes these jeans ideal for the larger woman.
The climbers were linked together by ropes.
a stained glass panel
He was wearing odd socks.
I’ve put in an application for a transfer.
When you get something wrong, it can shake your belief in yourself.
Police are awaiting the results of a forensic examination.
A child’s recall is usually accurate.
The DJ was fired after a heated exchange (=a very angry conversation) on air with a call-in listener.
The family acknowledge the need for change.
Each individual leaf on the tree is different.
I wondered why he should bother to try and establish contact with me.
My object was to explain the decision simply.
How can we maintain control of spending?
She had not had a very impressive school career up till then.
The final cost could be as much as one billion dollars.
Even in small companies, computers are an essential tool.
He’s not very academic.
Without knowing the background to the case, I couldn’t possibly comment.
Ruth went down to the lower deck (=lower level on a ship).
The ancient abbey was in imminent danger of collapse.
The president read a brief statement to reporters before boarding his plane.
He collapsed with a heart attack while he was dancing.
Are you planning to join the union?
Further efforts at negotiation have broken down.
a salary in the range of $25,000 to $30,000
Bake for 20 minutes in a conventional oven; 8 in a microwave.
cereal crops
The organization is dedicated to the free exchange of information.
a small battery attached to a little loudspeaker
Lou lifted the box easily, without using much effort.
The power supply should be connected by a qualified electrician.
The teacher split up the class into three groups.
adult male bears
Release the handbrake first.
Children who live in the country’s rural areas are very likely to be poor.
They signed a petition in support of the pay claim.
The events pose a challenge to the church’s leadership.
the prime minister’s recent statements on Europe
Charity workers must constantly raise more cash (=collect more money) for the needy.
a world leader in defence and space electronics
She stuffed two more sweaters into her bag.
At the conclusion of the meeting, little progress had been made.
We’ve installed new anti-virus software.
Testing yourself with information on cards is a useful device for studying.
The court can impose a fine.
the fundraising effort
I’ve allowed half a bottle of wine for each person.
Archer began to explore the possibilities of opening a club in the city.
Training is often much less effective than expected.
· It is usually supposed that girls are less aggressive than boys.
At this age we concentrate on the children’s reading and writing skills.
The school has served the community since its foundation in 1835.
I have every confidence that the job will be completed satisfactorily on time.
In your new job you will perform a variety of functions.
Her early work is very much after the fashion of Picasso and Braque.
a weapon of last resort
It might be to your advantage (=it might help you) to take a computer course of some kind.
an ancient forest
Local terminals are linked to the central computer.
Student leaders are demanding greater freedom of expression (=the right to say what you think without being punished).
All our products are fully guaranteed.
the need to reduce the influence of special interests (=groups who are concerned about particular subjects)
How will the Secretary General measure up to his new responsibilities?
I spilt the coffee, burning myself in the process.
He spotted me six points and he still won.
a short story that stands out as a brilliant piece of writing
All of the background noise made it difficult to have a phone conversation.
Seeing his face, Joanne realized she’d touched a raw nerve.
concentration on providing value and service
Liz realized that, despite herself, she cared about Edward.
She mingled with the crowd of guests, exchanging greetings.
a mental institution (=for the mentally ill)
Don’t worry, we’ll figure something out (=find a way to solve the problem).
Responding to the news, Mr Watt appealed for calm.
The president believes prices should be determined by the market, not the government.
Students should pursue their own interests, as well as do their school work.
There were crumbs and grains of sugar on the table.
I have no idea how I am going to support myself.
They abandoned their attempt to recapture the castle.
Which type of oil do you recommend for my car?
There are perhaps two main conclusions to be drawn from the above discussion.
He turned around, balancing awkwardly on one foot.
Changing the corporate culture is a long and difficult process.
victims of crime
As I approached the house, I noticed a light on upstairs.
They have a uniformly negative image of the police.
I’ve set the alarm for 7 o'clock.
an aeroplane seat assignment
In times of crisis, you find out who your real friends are.
Many companies will only advertise in the Sunday paper.
Whatever you do, slow down and take your time.
Peter seemed to have an instant understanding of the most complex issues.
A reward of $20,000 has been offered.
You have to do things exceptionally well to stand out from the crowd (=be different from ordinary people).
a stretch of three weeks without sunshine
Aluminium, being a metal, readily conducts heat.
concerns about the company’s finances
The improvements are due in large measure to his leadership.
She didn’t want to spoil this magic moment.
She had many reasons for taking the money, but chief among them was revenge.
Steel is produced by combining iron with carbon.
It is difficult to divorce sport from politics.
Alan narrowly avoided an accident.
an important policy switch
John showed high intelligence from an early age.
a red wine with a meaty character
I don’t like these layabouts you’re associating with.
You will have to get official permission first.
Independent candidates won three seats.
Hey you guys! Where are you going?
There’s a good antiques market here on Sundays.
a huge mass of data
The Heights was quiet and clean and remote from the busy daily life of the city.
a set of kitchen scales
small independent bookshops
She concluded by saying she was proud to be from Salford.
the best way of solving our dilemma
There are no simple solutions to the problem of overpopulation.
Wright slipped but managed to keep hold of the ball.
He leant against her so heavily that she could barely sustain his weight.
I’d committed myself and there was no turning back.
They’re reluctant to sell the house yet but the right offer could force their hand.
Johnson was a barrister by profession.
A lot depends on the result of this match.
There have been several attacks on foreigners recently.
Connect the speakers to the CD player.
Allow yourselves plenty of time to get to the airport.
She’s got a really positive attitude to life.
the responsibility of the police to preserve the peace
The new constitution provides for a 650-seat legislature.
an attempt to improve living conditions for the working classes
Unfortunately, the carved ceilings have suffered woodworm attack over the years.
Snow showers are likely tomorrow.
The meaning of her words was clear. We’d lost our jobs.
Good carpet wool needs to combine softness with strength.
John Major promoted the idea of a classless society.
Very gently, he lowered the dog onto the rug by the fire.
a book on the criminal justice system
He refused to shift his ground (=change his opinion).
I didn’t have any confidence in myself.
The most distinctive feature of the dinosaurs was their size.
Education remains the electorate’s main concern.
finding a point of contact between theory and practice
Cod stocks in the North Atlantic have dropped radically.
The proposal was rejected by 19 votes to 7.
The local authority is introducing new planning regulations.
Damn, the car has a flat.
Frank put a lot of effort into the party.
There is no formal structure for negotiating pay increases.
a board meeting
If you want a thicker blanket, there are more here in the closet.
Her abilities are not fully appreciated by her employer.
Most students rent rooms in their second year.
Cigarette smoking is the single most important cause of lung cancer.
Measures are being taken to reduce crime in the city.
a criminal lawyer
Most alternative technologies work best on a small scale.
The strain on the cables supporting the bridge is enormous.
Total expenditure is projected to rise by 25%.
The Moscow Symphony Orchestra is here on tour.
The pilot, whether by accident or design (=whether it was planned or not planned), made the plane do a sharp turn.
The project generated enormous interest.
There’s a real prospect that England will not qualify for the World Cup.
The Headteacher has extended an invitation to the prime minister to visit the school.
We insist on the highest standards of cleanliness in the hotel.
the friends they made on the journey
His injuries were quite severe.
Many parents are strongly critical of the school.
Each chapter concludes with a short summary.
Occasionally working from home adds variety to a job.
I have urged upon him the need for extreme secrecy.
The 1990s brought increased economic pressure to bear on all business activities.
The December figures brought the annual average for 2001 up to 10.6 per cent.
It says ‘Dry clean’ on the label.
Jerry graduated from high school last year.
Gibbons has been charged with murder.
There will be a citywide vote (=all the voters in a particular city) on the matter.
Immigrants have had a powerful influence on the local culture.
There were no independent witnesses to the shooting.
All this overeating is not good for my system.
Job losses in manufacturing were balanced by job increases in the service sector.
He called for a return to first principles (=the most important ideas) of road safety for children.
There have been reports of widespread enemy action in the area.
Our new system will allow for more efficient use of resources.
All rooms have private facilities (=private bathroom and toilet).
I don’t understand how the two ideas relate.
a three-year research project
He was aware of the wind in his face.
Nurses want an improved career structure (=better opportunities to move upwards in their jobs).
He exerts pressure on his kids to get them to do as he wants.
Simon has obtained early release from prison.
normal kids who are in conflict with their parents
The score is tied, with fifteen minutes remaining.
the New York State Board of Elections
An infant’s skin is very sensitive.
Our goal is to establish a new research centre in the North.
· Two planes crashed with each other in midair.
Harkin won 74 percent of the votes cast.
They have to rely on the river for their water.
the local authority
the results of an independent study
The majority of Brazil’s huge commercial interests support the measure.
Supplies were brought in by air.
Could you put this cake aside for me?
The company’s grand ambition was to become the first and biggest global airline.
Four towers projected from the main building.
the physical world around us
Many religious schools perform well academically.
I was impressed by the energy and commitment shown by the players.
The security forces opened fire, killing two people.
Long hours working at a computer can cause eye strain.
Too many things demanded his attention at the same time.
Her commitment to work is beyond question.
The two girls disappeared while walking home from school.
a truly great work of medieval literature
The baby’s birth was registered this morning.
He eased himself into a chair.
the grand end of West Avenue
Local people have given us a lot of support in our campaign.
union members
Meanwhile, the fate of the refugees continues to hang in the balance.
I demand to know what’s going on.
I read your article with great interest.
Villagers turned out in force to protest about the new road.
The speech laid him open to charges of political bias.
a split between the radicals and the moderates within the group
Lights, camera, action!
We’ve switched over to telephone banking.
The knife slipped and cut his finger.
Today’s match ranks as one of the most exciting games that these two have ever played.
The child showed a normal pattern of development.
It may interest you to know that a number of scholarships are available.
There are no bank charges if you stay in credit.
recent trends in education
In addition to his movie work, Redford is known as a champion of environmental causes.
It was feared that the issue would split the church.
You can expect delivery in a week to ten days.
The people of Ulster had finally been given a chance to vote on the issue.
a major political crisis
While we’re on the subject of money, do you have the $10 you owe me?
I believe it is in the public interest that these facts are made known.
He glared at the people who surrounded the tent.
Once again we came under attack from enemy fighter planes.
Mercury is the smallest of all the planets.
One theory is that the hostages fell victim to bandits.
A couple of men started fighting and we had to pull them apart.
I think I have four vacation days left.
In the background, you can see my college friends.
a marketing executive
The plane was brought down safely and not a single passenger was killed.
Gould rejected claims that he had acted irresponsibly.
people who pay tax at the highest rate
a deep split within the government
The trend is towards reintegrating mentally ill people into the community.
The discovery was made almost by accident.
Try to keep a balance between work and play.
He relaxed his grip on my arm.
a child’s favourite toy
The cod were so thick in the water that they caught thousands very quickly.
Walsh confirmed that the money had been paid.
Working from home requires a good deal of discipline.
government housing policy
Only limited resources are available to the police.
The players conducted themselves impeccably, both on and off the field.
There was just a suggestion of a smile on her face.
We offer an excellent benefits package.
a T-shirt with Japanese writing on it
mud flats
a military helicopter
Calls will be charged at 44p per minute.
A 24-hour ceasefire allowed the two armies to reach an agreement.
The company has strong links with big investors.
The cost of our raw materials has risen significantly.
Under the new regulations, all staff must have safety training.
arts and crafts
How do these insects adapt themselves to new environments?
The rides at the fair just can’t compare with the rides at Disneyland.
It can be difficult for schools to get rid of poor teachers.
The new arts centre will serve the whole community.
The police were under instruction to fire if necessary.
In sum, soul music is important to the record industry.
Cases of child abuse have a strong emotional charge.
They went to the High Court to challenge the decision.
The rural environment was having a positive effect on the children’s health.
The Russians have already indicated their willingness to cooperate.
I got a complete mental block as soon as the interviewer asked me a question.
the council for civil liberties
The castle is supposed to be haunted.
We had an understanding that Jean-Claude should never be mentioned.
health problems caused by bad housing
The town is cut off from contact with the outside world.
Farming interests now dominate many of the National Park committees.
a bomb attack
He focused his binoculars on the building opposite.
The numbers are small in percentage terms (=when calculated as a percentage).
It’s easy to let the emotions attached to one situation spill over into others.
the Norwegian national coach
Nichols never carried out his threat to resign.
Geoff didn’t study law. Instead, he decided to become an actor.
The course is designed for beginners.
Eastern religions used to be the fashion in the 60s.
victims of age discrimination
Have you checked that the batteries haven’t gone flat (=become flat)?
The council must make economies to meet government spending targets.
We have good contacts with the local community.
Smoking causes lung cancer.
His book provides a critical analysis of the television industry in Britain.
My parents wouldn’t allow me to go to the party.
The delegation registered a formal protest with US embassy officials Wednesday.
No figures are available for the number of goods sold.
The average cost of making a movie has risen by 15%.
Come on, pump up the volume (=play music louder)!
Lawyers are satisfied that no breach of confidence took place.
Mexican law prohibits the employment of children under 14.
She went to Spain despite the fact that her doctor had told her to rest.
The race was postponed in the interests of safety.
A budget is defined as ‘a plan of action expressed in money terms’.
Please fill in and return the attached reply slip.
Your writing is very neat.
He’ll be ready to accept whatever help he can get.
From the outside, it looked like any other big warehouse.
Lucy’s mood was one of deep depression.
These issues have recently come into sharp focus (=people have started to talk about them a lot).
Try calculating your budget for a typical week.
We mustn’t give these groups a platform for their propaganda.
The car has been well maintained and is in excellent condition.
The book is split into six sections.
missiles with a range of 3000 km
red lettering on a white background
Compared to our small flat, Bill’s house seemed like a palace.
Cantona initially went on loan to Leeds United.
Everyone recognizes Disney’s cartoon characters.
The beautiful beaches are the island’s main attraction (=most popular place, activity etc).
He was in deadly earnest (=completely serious).
The attraction between them was almost immediate.
a perfectly flat sandy beach
The boy remained silent.
the appearance of buds on the trees
Dial ‘9’ before the number when making outside calls.
Clare’s my tennis partner.
How much time are we allowed?
The two rapidly became deadly enemies.
The club sank deeper into debt.
She refused to give any details about what had happened.
The neighbors’ dog got in through a gap in the hedge.
The town was captured after a siege lasting ten days.
The metal posts spoiled the appearance of the garden.
The system seems to be working normally now.
The majority of smokers say that they would like to quit the habit.
a British subject
Some of the problems were mentioned in his report.
Careers Officers maintain contact with young people when they have left school.
I’ve met her twice but only on formal occasions.
The Soviet Union had been forced by circumstances to sign a pact with Nazi Germany.
It is unlikely that the disease will be transferred from animals to humans.
A large branch came crashing down.
She’s gone to Italy on a special assignment.
physical chemistry
I got a real charge out of seeing my niece take her first steps.
Mr Kelly has lodged a formal complaint against the police.
a cheap third-rate motel
The report called for urgent action to reduce lead in petrol.
Eyewitnesses identified the gunman as an army sergeant.
There remained a few jobs still to be finished.
Preheat the oven to 200 degrees C.
He quit his job after an argument with a colleague.
How much does it cost to hire videos?
It’s a relief to know that something positive is being done.
grains of rice
When it got to midnight and Paul was still not back, I began to assume the worst.
She’s definitely got sex appeal (=she is sexually attractive).
He was in urgent need of medical attention.
short-range nuclear forces
As they enter the home stretch of the campaign, the president’s lead has grown.
Sales targets are indicated on the graph by a vertical dotted line.
Elton John gave an interview to Barbara Walters (=he answered her questions).
I’d like to see some samples of your work.
an officer of junior rank
a basic understanding of AIDS prevention
photos of ski jumpers in action
the fine detail of the plan
Detectives are busy hunting for clues.
the figure ‘2’
A love of nature links the two poets.
The project is designed to provide young people with work.
Rodgers and Hart’s music sounds as fresh and vital as the day it was written.
I hope you can help get me out of a tight spot.
the economic and social contrasts between the poor and the rich
The speech received much comment in the press.
Tough decisions will have to be made.
He is conventional in his approach to life.
She took a seat at his suggestion.
The director faces disciplinary action (=official action to punish him).
US foreign and domestic policy
artificial fertilizers
trucks loaded with emergency supplies
The dog slipped his collar and ran away.
He was too shocked to give an account of what had happened.
the company’s official logo
People make a lot of assumptions about me.
I was so weak that even standing up was an effort.
There was very little evidence against the two men.
By 1900, Britain was a mainly industrial society.
Doctors have traditionally enjoyed high social status.
‘The Times’ leader column
If it’s culture you’re looking for, the city has plenty of museums and art galleries.
The book is not intended for a purely academic audience.
social institutions such as the family and religion
a conflict between the demands of one’s work and one’s family
The samples could give scientists vital information about long-term changes in the Earth’s atmosphere.
My calculations were based on the assumption that house prices would remain steady.
Generally, part-timers work in low-status, low-wage occupations.
The old servant fulfilled his master’s charge to care for the children.
There was never any suggestion of criminal involvement.
He had specific instructions to check everyone’s identity cards.
The journey was a positive nightmare.
I realized we were still worlds apart.
Rebel forces launched (=started) an attack late Sunday night.
the design of the new building
Could I just qualify that last statement?
He was one of the most powerful men in Bohemia.
In the past, your family was the first resort when looking for a job.
He sent a letter to the council to complain about the noise.
He was attached to the foreign affairs department of a Japanese newspaper.
I chose a spot well away from the road.
an oil exploration platform
Some militants favour independence for Kashmir or union with Pakistan.
a welfare program with a budget of $2 million
a test that can reveal a teacher’s hidden skills
The orchestra is conducted by John Williams.
There have been great advances in the treatment of cancer.
Nationwide employment now stands at 95%.
The company is responsible for maintaining public telephone boxes.
I can’t get rid of this cough.
an extraordinary talent
The new factory is expected to create more than 400 new jobs.
We’ve done what we can. Let’s quit.
The church was carefully restored after the war.
Our main overseas market is Japan.
You should avoid over-spending in the first half of the year.
It was an odd thing to say.
Airlines have lost billions of dollars.
These problems aside, we think the plan should go ahead.
a fireworks display
She often travels outside the UK.
The charity approached several stores about giving food aid.
The response we’ve had from the public has been very positive.
a high mass of rock
Instructors should demonstrate new movements before letting the class try them.
Johnson’s biggest crime was that he told the truth.
There’s a package here for a Miami Lakes address.
The rainfall was measured over a three-month period.
the fashion for ‘discovery methods’ of learning
The new drug has become the subject of heated debate within the medical profession.
I can’t leave her unless I know she’s all right.
These figures do not take account of changes in the rate of inflation.
I slipped him a ten-dollar bill to keep quiet.
Appealing to the referee does not often result in a decision being changed.
The gas fire was turned low for reasons of economy.
She divides her time between New York and Paris.
She deserves credit for trying her best.
The hotel had a lovely relaxed atmosphere.
The scheme offers an ideal opportunity for youngsters to get training.
a more professional approach to work
an infinite capacity for love
He identified with our distress.
light-sensitive photographic paper
They thought an influx of students would lower the tone of the neighborhood.
children’s toys made of plastic
Remind me to buy some milk tonight.
Don’t write down every single word I say.
a recognized authority on Roman pottery
A rash business decision left him $600 in debt.
We could watch what was happening on the TV monitor.
Arsenal looked flat for large parts of the game.
a remote border town
Babe slipped and fell flat on her face.
The magazine recently published a vicious personal attack on the novelist.
I watched the first few episodes, but soon lost interest.
an athlete in peak condition
people who work in the professions (=doctors, lawyers etc)
an everyday object such as a spoon
We turned off the outside lights and went to bed.
our concern for human rights
the human version of mad cow disease
I owe you nothing. If anything, the reverse is true (=you owe me).
a child’s capacity for learning
Credit for this win goes to everybody in the team.
A billion stars shone in the night sky.
His main concern is to be able to provide for his family.
Switch over to BBC 2.
Mills is responsible for a budget of over $5 million.
reports from two separate sources entirely independent of one another
Measure up any items that you want to keep in the kitchen.
Out of a random sample of drivers, 21% had been in an accident in the previous year.
Anna wants to get married, but Bob’s not sure he wants to commit.
Thieves broke into the building in the mistaken belief that there was expensive computer equipment inside.
Both defendants refused to acknowledge the authority of the court.
The sudden noise made him release his hold on her arm.
The company exports tuna to the US.
He had seen action (=been involved in fighting) in Korea.
a powerful singing voice
Reserve a little of the mixture to sprinkle over the top of the pie.
We receive hundreds of job applications each year.
Her mission was to improve staff morale.
Hungary established diplomatic relations with Chile in 1990.
The countryside near there is flat as a pancake (=very flat).
David’s parents divorced when he was six.
a cycling tour of Cornwall
The press launched a vicious attack on the president.
He lost his claim for unfair dismissal.
Civil rights groups have complained about the harsh treatment of prisoners.
Please don’t change your plans on my account.
He lifted his T-shirt to expose a jagged scar across his chest.
With one or two notable exceptions, there are few women conductors.
Police officers are being given new powers to help combat crime.
This button adjusts the contrast.
a very tough, hard-wearing cloth
Research indicates that over 81% of teachers are dissatisfied with their salary.
The atmosphere in the courtroom was electric.
She provided emotional support at a very distressing time for me.
Penny’s applied for a transfer to head office.
computers linked by modems to the outside world
She grabbed at his shoulders for support.
Jean rarely sounded so negative about her mother.
Did you register the parcel?
highly competitive industries
Tourism generates income for local communities.
a relief driver
We meet once a month to discuss community problems.
We’ve switched the meeting from Tuesday to Thursday.
Those most immediately involved in the disaster will be given support.
We shall never know whether this happened by accident or by design.
the early evening edition of Scotland Today
an appeal to the army to not use too much force
Janet’s been under a lot of stress since her mother’s illness.
All these people are innocent victims.
It is important to look at the novel in its historical context.
Sara panicked in the exam and didn’t do herself justice.
shifting attitudes towards marriage
The meeting was supposed to take place on Tuesday, but we’ve had to postpone it.
independent television companies
the worsening weather conditions
She survived the attack.
Helen was promoted to senior manager.
It’s clear that the author is a woman.
Anybody have five singles?
It is significant that the writers of the report were all men.
the effects of acid rain on the environment
the German political culture
If you fail to pay your bill, you run the risk of having your electricity supply cut off (=stopped).
The earthquake measured 6.5 on the Richter scale.
a minor key
A general pattern began to emerge.
Their physical relationship had never been very good.
You could have caused a major diplomatic incident.
We need to rethink the way we consume energy. Take, for instance, our approach to transport.
The school is an obvious candidate for extra funding.
the power of suggestion
Unfortunately, what could have been a powerful drama fell flat.
Forensic tests should settle the question of whether Bates was actually present at the scene of the crime.
Reilly involves himself in every aspect of his company’s business.
In her last days the poet expressed concern for her father.
After 20 minutes lower the temperature to 325°.
a collapse in the value of pensions
He is responsible for recruiting and training new staff.
a disease that affects the central nervous system
She’s a credit to her profession.
Drug smugglers can expect severe penalties.
primary education
Recent research has shed light on the causes of the disease.
The lounge was well supplied with ashtrays.
My brother will confirm what I have told you.
hair of medium length
Gingerly she explored the bump on her head with her fingers.
She’s a terrible gossip but she means no harm.
I suppose it’s too late to apply for that job now.
There are a handful of charities which I support regularly.
A spider’s web can stretch considerably without weakening.
My doctor said I should vary my diet more.
Drug dealers face severe penalties.
ten piano pieces, each written to display the talents of individual players
I crashed out on the sofa this afternoon.
a massive aid programme for the famine victims
She took an active interest in local charities.
It’s a new technique and the failure rate is quite high.
The bill was supported by a large majority in the Senate.
a boy with a reputation for challenging the authority of his teachers
the tradition that the eldest son inherits the property
You might want to consider temporary work until you decide what you want to do.
The refugees come across the border in vast numbers.
He had extreme difficulty getting hold of the ingredients.
a market town on the border of England and Wales
Some students enter other professions such as arts administration.
A separate room is reserved for smokers.
an imaging system using high-performance (=very effective) technology
I pressed ‘return’ and an error message was displayed.
There’s no reason to suppose (=it is unlikely that) he’s lying.
a police crackdown on car crime
the assumption of responsibility
On the shelves were rank after rank of liquor bottles.
huge rents in the curtains
I make a good living. I can’t complain.
the Marxist version of economics
The photocopier is out of action again.
Gayle’s mother said I was a bad influence on her daughter.
the painting’s highly effective use of colour
For Haskill, selling the restaurant would be admitting defeat.
students with a negative attitude to school
We’ve had a lot of positive feedback from the people of this city.
I asked for an extra two weeks to finish the work.
a professional army
Attach a recent photograph to your application form.
The police are expert at handling situations like this in strict confidence.
the administration of sedatives
The police were issued with body armour for extra protection.
a shift of focus
The earthquake registered 7.2 on the Richter scale.
It could have been an accident, but that was hardly likely (=not very likely).
It’s quite a strain on me when he’s drinking heavily.
The storm caused severe damage.
The game had to be abandoned due to bad weather.
a deadly weapon
An independent body (=group of people who work together) has been set up to monitor government spending.
Disease is nature’s way of keeping the population down.
a feature on holidaying with your dog
an awkward gap in the conversation
Now that my sons are more independent, I have more time for myself.
They argued the point (=discussed it) for hours without reaching a conclusion.
She has reached a crisis point in her career.
resources for learning
It is important to maintain a constant temperature inside the greenhouse.
We expect to take delivery of the aircraft sometime in June.
It was very difficult to leave a home we had invested so much in.
Morris has a private jet.
black olives preserved in brine
The treaty restored Okinawa to Japan.
It was clear to land so we made our approach.
We were all deeply affected by her death.
That night I lay flat on my back and stared up at the ceiling.
The city became a centre for the paper industry.
County Championship leaders of Hampshire
a science fiction series
The president was leaving for a four-day official tour of Mexico.
The company’s plan supposes a steady increase in orders.
tough young thugs looking for trouble
drugs that alter perception
Who on earth do you suppose could have done this?
There was a taste in court circles for romantic verse.
continued efforts to alleviate poverty and raise living standards
The group is a junior partner (=less important group) in the PLO’s governing coalition.
What’s the credit limit on your Visa card?
Tomorrow, there’s a remote possibility of snow on high ground.
They crossed the mountains and headed for the valleys beyond.
Repetition can help the learning process.
He keeps a stock of medicines in the cupboard.
Over the next months, he applied himself to improving the technique.
a meeting of the world’s major industrial nations
He is due to make another court appearance on Monday.
She asked him flat out if he was seeing another woman.
An answering service can screen out nuisance calls.
Shh! Settle down, please! Now turn to page 57.
initiatives to restore peace in the Middle East
The jet crashed after take-off.
the unspoilt character of the coast
She contracted the disease while she was abroad on holiday.
Something terrible has happened.
Don’t advertise the fact that you’re looking for another job.
It might be possible to approach the problem in a different way.
Georgia had taken pills to settle her stomach, but she was still throwing up every hour.
You may think you’re poor, but it’s all relative (=you are not poor compared to some people).
boxes stuffed full of papers
Tom flicked the switch, but nothing happened.
The violinist revealed himself as a talented interpreter of classical music.
any spot within range of your radio signal
She had an outward appearance of calm, but deep down she was really worried.
A 10p rise in cigarette prices is not enough to encourage smokers to stop.
The oil spill was a disaster for Alaskan sea animals.
She peered closely at her image in the mirror.
The government will not give in to terrorist threats.
The president refused to confirm the rumor.
athletes who had tested positive for banned substances
a new comedy series
The stock lost 60 cents a share, in contrast to last year, when it gained 21 cents.
She was balancing a plate of food on her knees.
Silva issued a statement denying all knowledge of the affair.
In the current economic climate (=conditions), we must keep costs down.
the conclusion of a peace treaty
A couple of guys relieved him of his wallet.
Students need to learn how to organize their work.
She stressed the importance of a balanced diet.
Please indicate your preference on the booking form.
problems which we can’t afford to ignore
scientists studying plants, animals, or inanimate objects (=things that are not alive)
I’m afraid we haven’t got any singles available.
He watched the sun slip down behind the mountains.
Living in a war zone, the children knew the meaning of fear.
a guest spot on ‘The Tonight Show’
TV is used as an escape from reality.
She threatened to take legal action against the hospital.
The hotel provides a shoe-cleaning service for guests.
Croft argued that a date should be set for the withdrawal of troops.
Their primary objective is to make money.
The firm owns about 96% of the portfolio, with the balance belonging to our family.
I couldn’t believe we were really and truly going at last.
an odd shoe
There was a screen around his bed.
The cake came out of the oven flat, not fluffy.
a plastic spoon
The autopsy established that he had been murdered.
He was fined for making abusive comments to the referee.
A woman who has given a man children will always have a claim on his love.
Dana admitted feeling hurt by what I had said.
a machine that is immensely powerful
The unions have a lot of political muscle.
They can’t be normal to do something like that.
Several points remain to be settled.
Did you get the rest of your stuff?
US Military Intelligence
He opened the windows to get rid of the smell.
There were strict conditions for letting us use their information.
He walked with her, linking arms (=putting his arm around her arm).
The novel shows a surprising poverty of imagination.
She had never accepted the reality of her pregnancy.
a new translation of the Bible
He has a lot of talent, and his work is fresh and interesting.
Anyone travelling without a passport runs the risk of being arrested.
The doctor forced his way through the crowd.
My ex-husband has access to the children once a week.
He made some notes for his private use.
a blow-by-blow account of how England lost to Portugal
a centre-left government
Long skid marks on the pavement indicated the driver had attempted to brake.
The furnishings recall the 1960s.
different theories about how the brain works
The hotel offers a high standard of service at competitive rates.
the three most likely candidates for president
It took a few seconds for her eyes to adjust to the darkness.
a ruler with a metric scale
No system is designed to cope with the floods we have had this year.
an extreme case of cruelty
This evening’s performance will begin at 8.00 pm.
The police came to the inescapable conclusion that the children had been murdered.
The killers will be brought to justice (=caught and punished).
From the way he behaved, I figured that he was drunk.
inflationary pressures
a bank account with an overdraft facility
He described the process in detail (=using a lot of details).
She designed a new logo for the company.
Another approach to the problem is described in Chapter 3.
alternative approaches to learning
Sarah bought some chocolate for her three young charges.
Freud’s psychological theories
Most of our soldiers are raw recruits.
Larger corporations are setting the trend for better maternity benefits.
She feared becoming an object of ridicule.
Bryce was caught posing as a lawyer.
the four biggest TV networks
He’s always been a sloppy writer.
He came from a family of rank (=one from a high social class).
Congress finally adopted the law after a two-year debate.
a coat with attitude
There’s a lot of interesting stuff in this book.
I see no prospect of things improving here.
Several women have complained of sexual harassment.
the limits of scientific knowledge
The court case lasted six weeks.
a coal-fired kitchen range
The last round of bidding aroused considerable interest.
I’m going to have to stretch this $20 until payday.
Because of the fog they abandoned their idea of driving.
If you’re selling, you have to have genuine belief in the product.
Experts have differing views on the subject.
domestic arrangements
a tennis player with a highly individual style
people of all ranks in society
Police have launched a campaign to crack down on drug dealers.
demonstrations in support of the nationalists’ demands
They have been promoted to the First Division.
The police are investigating death threats made against the two men.
We need to apply for planning permission to build a garage.
a high wooden structure with a curved roof
the growing concern over inflation
Women are more at risk from the harmful effects of alcohol than men.
We are hoping the enquiry will provide an explanation for the accident.
I quit school at 16.
construction workers
The trees had been planted by the previous owner.
Hedges are an important feature of the landscape in Britain.
She has a good figure.
The players are due on court in an hour.
The court declined to review her case.
a fighter pilot
He’s talked to me about all that stuff too.
The focus of recent research has been on environmental issues.
I tried appealing to his better nature (=his feelings of kindness) but he wouldn’t agree to help us.
The book is divided into six sections.
He needs to focus more on his career.
courses in time management
traditional male values
I mentioned the idea to Joan, and she seemed to like it.
Smith was confirmed as the club’s new manager yesterday.
the myth of Orpheus
It has, from all accounts, been a successful marriage.
nicotine, the active ingredient in tobacco
Some US industries are not as competitive as they have been in the past.
a dazzling display (=very good display) of flowers
Duval could switch easily from French to English.
The Bureau is active in promoting overseas investment.
I’ll look for a house next year when it’s more of a buyer’s market.
companies that are polluting and destroying the environment
Weather patterns have changed in recent years.
an elected representative of the people
His friends insisted he had no connection with drugs.
the largest ever gathering of world leaders (=people who are in charge of countries)
We hope this leaflet has been helpful in answering your questions.
difficult grammatical constructions
The fact remains that racism is still a considerable problem.
a portfolio of work presented at interview
Officials claim the chemical poses no real threat.
lifelong bonds of friendship
Most of the people in this neighborhood are on welfare.
The reporters were asking a lot of tough questions.
Mix in the remaining ingredients and serve immediately.
We’ll have to take the boards up to check the wiring.
The enquiry will be more in the nature of a public meeting than a formal hearing.
I’ve come to pay my respects to Mrs O'Hara.
Editing requires great attention to detail.
a campaign for equal rights
He made his last appearance for the club in the Cup Final.
The country is a target of criticism for its human rights record.
The loss of their goalkeeper through injury was a major setback for the team.
The new credit cards will be of great benefit to our customers.
The victim received head injuries from which she died a week later.
an old steam engine
a new treatment which effectively kills cancer cells
To cross the border, you will need a valid passport.
It can help if you discuss your anxieties with someone.
Small businesses have suffered financially during the recession.
The watches in this range are priced at £24.50.
These exercises are designed to strengthen muscles.
Tax is paid as a percentage of total income.
The London factory assembles the finished product.
John’s departure had upset their daily routine.
Chomsky’s account of how children learn their first language
The official opening ceremony was performed by Princess Margaret.
I’m just not the marrying kind.
Cattle ranged over the pastures in search of food.
Zoe looked at me with a blank expression.
We need an effective strategy to fight poverty.
Davis won the election with 57% of the vote.
Jack’s air of quiet authority
All the local clubs were represented in the parade.
I was in no condition to cope with a train journey.
The highest rates of unemployment occur in the inner urban areas.
The car industry apart, most industries are now seeing an improvement in their economic performance.
The group objected that the policy would prevent patients from receiving the best treatment.
Mrs Edwards gave instructions that she was not to be disturbed.
the official crime statistics
Suddenly the screen went blank.
The city has invested millions of dollars in the museum.
a cancerous growth
Buy now while stocks last!
She qualified for a spot on the U.S. Olympic speed skating team.
Her latest album makes extensive use of samples from a wide range of acid jazz tracks.
Health and education need cash from the government.
extreme cold
Claire acknowledged that she was guilty.
He received a letter saying that his application had been rejected.
Failure to produce proof of identity could result in prosecution.
I’ve only got a week’s supply of tablets left.
Police want a national register of DNA samples.
The police used force to overpower the demonstrators.
The curriculum includes courses in computing.
There is a grain of truth in all folklore and legend.
an on–off switch
Sontag was once famously described as the most intelligent woman in America.
the daily trials of living in a poor country
her opponent’s relative lack of experience
Even after 30 years, the play has lost none of its force.
Everyone did what they could to support the war effort.
His job includes looking after under-21 teams.
grated carrots
Charles tends towards obesity.
a series of crop failures
the lower levels of management
My attraction to him was totally physical.
It is important to reward good behaviour.
This treatment represents a significant advance in the field of cancer research.
Switch the freezer to ‘defrost’.
There are heavy demands on people’s time these days.
Her unusual lifestyle set her apart as a child.
Their music will never go out of fashion.
The results will be announced at midnight.
curtain material
a supply of building materials
Once out of danger, he started to relax.
Can we have strawberries? They’re my favourite.
a private hospital
In a publishing deal, the average split used to be 50:50 between writer and publisher.
Withdrawing the money early will result in a 10% penalty.
increased concern that the war could continue for a long time
another reduction in the mortgage rate
Pollution has a negative effect on the health of everyone living in the city, not to mention the damage to the environment.
a book which offers great ideas for decorating on a budget
The Ambassador was recalled from Washington.
clearing forest for rice culture
extreme right-wing nationalists
They identified a number of problem areas.
Blood pumped from the wound.
How could she abandon her own child?
The roof had collapsed long ago.
It’s time to get tough with drunk drivers.
Drugs helped to relieve the pain.
his claim to be the rightful owner of the painting
He proved that he has considerable inner resources.
I think he behaved disgracefully towards you.
The streets are calm again after last night’s disturbances.
Kim worked as a tour guide in Cambridge last summer.
He was a bully, and we’re well rid of him (=it is good that he has gone).
Her capacity to absorb information is amazing.
games for active youngsters
The incident has strained relations between the two countries.
Research has confirmed that the risk is higher for women.
His wife has started divorce proceedings.
The report revealed that workers had been exposed to high levels of radiation.
companies that pursue the traditional goal of profits
The growing trend is for single mothers to bring up children by themselves.
The airport is currently reviewing its security arrangements.
This word is derived from Latin.
an excruciatingly painful death
a Scotch and soda
His paintings are very much in the tradition of Picasso and Matisse.
teenage rebellion against authority figures
the world market in aluminum
Joan hoped that the others were out of range of her mother’s voice.
The course was organized by a training company.
victims of racial attacks
Credit must go to Fiona for making sure everything ran smoothly.
The kids were hunting for shells on the beach.
We can measure the energy that food provides in calories.
What you do in your private life is of no interest to me.
Economic sanctions will be used only in the last resort.
She emerged from the divorce a stronger person.
Your order will be sent free of charge (=with no cost).
Each event will be scored separately.
Please inform us if there are any significant changes in your plans.
Relax your stomach muscles, then stretch again.
He lay flat on the floor.
A baby communicates its needs by crying.
outdoor activities such as hiking or climbing
The emerging science of photography was already changing fashions in art.
the support act (=the support band)
a score of 90%
the basic principles of business management
All I want is to lead a normal life.
I’m taking a course on political theory.
We really felt in the mood for a party.
She has always been identified with the radical left.
He died of cancer last month.
Do your sums first before you decide how much to spend.
The theory falls flat on its face when put into practice.
Britain played a major role in the negotiations.
He let it slip that they were planning to get married.
The bank will only lend me money if my parents guarantee the loan.
Outside observers said the election was free and fair.
Anyway, how are you?
Barnet was desperate for money to resolve his financial problems.
Investment is a necessary condition of economic growth.
He was found guilty of all six charges against him.
athletes who show grace under pressure (=who behave well when they are anxious)
Anyone wishing to join the society should apply in the first instance to the secretary.
The Security Commission investigates breaches of security.
Are you absolutely positive you locked the door?
My wife and I are living apart at the moment.
I’ve offered to paint the kitchen in exchange for a week’s accommodation.
The tourist industry is of vital importance to the national economy.
The gallery charges an entrance fee.
More than 70% of murder cases were solved last year.
different ethnic communities
Becoming a member of a society means adopting its values.
They get their money from various sources.
The mission of International House is to enable students of different cultures to live together and build life-long friendships.
Jed was a powerful, well-built man.
For me, music is a great source of enjoyment.
New technology is being applied to almost every industrial process.
short thick fingers
Demonstrators have charged that the police used excessive force against them.
the German chemicals giant, BASF
just enough sugar to balance the acidity of the fruit
All claims should be made in writing.
my journey to China
We need to take positive steps to improve the situation of families in poverty.
Acupuncture is widely used by practitioners of alternative medicine.
Potatoes turn green when exposed to light.
The decision was reversed on appeal.
Mrs Welland reminded her son that they still had several people to see.
Is the coffee break the adult version of recess?
He raised his hand and struck her with terrifying force.
The financial markets are calm at the moment.
an artificial smile
I’m sorry, that swimsuit is completely out of stock in your size.
Fry the onions over a medium heat until they are golden.
You probably picked up my keys instead of yours.
You can’t ignore the fact that many criminals never go to prison.
If you don’t do the job right, you will pay the penalty.
our nation’s domestic affairs
The programme appeals to young children.
A lot of money has been committed to this project.
In 1986 GM acquired a controlling interest in the sports car maker Lotus.
houses with flat roofs
She’s not really ill, just generally run-down.
Whatever happened to Steve? I haven’t seen him for years.
Women concentrate in a small number of occupations.
The company is believed to be keen to sell its extensive brewing interests.
In movies, talent by no means guarantees success.
The kids stretch my patience to the limit.
Pets are permitted at the resort by prior arrangement.
the threat of military invasion
I had visions of the kids getting lost and getting abducted by some weirdo.
Just out of interest, how much did they offer you?
They built a big addition onto the back of the house.
Payment may be made in any of the following ways: cheque, cash, or credit card.
You’re projecting your insecurity onto me.
There was much lively debate about whether women should spend more time in the home.
Her bedroom is decorated in a Victorian theme.
I’ve got some sticky stuff on my shoe.
His main mission in life is to earn as much money as possible.
He got lost and spent hours looking for the station, and anyway it was past midnight by the time he got home.
Switch off by listening to music.
modern American youth culture
a grain of sand
The road was blocked by a solid mass of protesters.
Why don’t you invite Seb, or whatever he’s called, to supper?
a board member
In conclusion, I would like to say how much I have enjoyed myself today.
When do we get our exam results?
This is a bad time to be in the market for a new car.
Four people will appear in court today, charged with fraud.
terms and conditions of employment
One of the world’s oldest cars has gone on display in Brighton today.
Seven police and three private individuals needed medical attention.
You’re slipping, Doyle! You need a holiday.
I try to keep my work and private life as far apart as possible.
These products are firmly established as the market leaders.
Extreme poverty still exists in many rural areas.
saline solution
That is not necessarily true.
a well-dressed elderly woman
He finished in 10 minutes 22.4 seconds, 4 seconds outside the record.
· The government put a higher tax on cigarettes.
Henry Luce had a grand design for America’s future.
He was taken off the critical list and is now in a stable condition.
What are the likely effects of the law going to be?
He described finding his mother lying on the floor.
I love working abroad and meeting people from different cultures.
Nature is a recurrent theme (=a theme that appears repeatedly) in Frost’s poetry.
Applicants are screened for security.
He had a fund of stories about his boyhood.
Could you wait outside please.
It is vital to be honest with your children.
Our economy is inextricably linked with America’s.
pain from a trapped nerve
The government must acknowledge what is happening and do something about it.
A superb goal by Owen earned United a dramatic victory yesterday.
Scientists have observed a drop in ozone levels over the Antarctic.
women who are forced into arranged marriages
the longest range of hills in the Lake District
The argument resolved itself into an uneasy truce.
Hitchcock’s films demonstrate that a British filmmaker could learn from Hollywood.
exciting possibilities for reducing costs
There has been housing development on a massive scale since 1980.
Few people outside the government realized what was happening.
The soldier stood without moving a muscle.
Brady was on trial for assault.
the United States’ special bond with Britain
Intelligence sources denied the reports.
Cally slipped from his grasp and fled.
Do you suppose this is the exact spot?
the first televised session of parliament
Crime figures showed significant percentage increases.
I thought, stuff it, I’ll do what I want.
He urged that a referendum should be held by December.
Her greatest ambition was to represent her country at the Olympics.
Will you children please behave!
The government has threatened to take military action if the rebels do not withdraw from the area.
Many of the villagers rely on fishing as their primary source of income.
a professor of ancient history
factor 15 suntan oil
Select PRINT from the main menu.
treatment that will bring a release from pain
Some of our courses extend over two years.
plastic bags
birds hiding in the thick undergrowth
Kate’s in New York on an employee exchange so she can get some more training.
Her eyes were her best feature.
Thousands of bombs were released over Dresden.
Positive action was required.
The court is now in session.
The country’s economy is in danger of falling apart.
the myth of male superiority
Mrs Carver is supposed to have a lot of money.
He’s always been surrounded by people who adore him.
I don’t recall seeing any cars parked outside.
It is difficult to take issue with his analysis.
The letter was a genuine expression of sympathy.
The castle was centuries old and full of atmosphere.
Over time, you will get a far better understanding of the job.
a smoky atmosphere
The story has attracted a lot of interest from the media.
Whisk the egg whites until they form stiff peaks.
I have never betrayed a confidence.
Make sure the weight of the load is evenly distributed.
· The task proved difficult.
the study of art as an academic discipline
female voters
The city of Boerne was established by German settlers in the 1840s.
He rose and relieved her of her bags.
I see they’re advertising for a new Sales Director.
The fall in prices was due to forces beyond their control.
Briggs ran across the field with one officer pursuing him.
advice on how to reach your ideal weight
The Food Ministry is attached to the Ministry of Agriculture.
a sophisticated alarm system
As it grows, a snake will regularly shed its skin.
Fluency in three languages qualifies her for work in the European Parliament.
The castle is set in one of England’s most romantic landscapes.
Can you book a squash court for tomorrow?
measures to ease congestion in the city
the battle against the forces of evil
As you are aware, a fee will be charged annually.
When approving a merger, the commission can attach conditions.
The programme brought an instant response.
We sat in deadly silence.
Italian industry is concentrated mainly in the north.
The high level of radiation in the rocks implies that they are volcanic in origin.
She eased her shoes off.
The police are always in evidence at football matches.
The police asked her to describe the man.
The plane landed without incident.
Pollution could cause changes to weather patterns on a global scale.
The movie has not yet been released on video.
Several countries claim authority over the islands.
a new version of the software
the theory that light is made up of waves
I’m saving money on a regular basis.
You can have the bathroom designed to suit your individual needs.
There was no possibility of changing the voting procedure.
Agassi was at that time ranked sixth in the world.
She found it difficult to sustain the children’s interest.
He claims the police destroyed records that could prove the officer’s guilt.
the action of the heart
He’ll be competing against the world’s best.
He told them not to concern themselves about him.
Dylan was holding court upstairs to a group of fans.
The tourist industry is recovering to pre-war levels.
His business interests are spread throughout Europe.
Ken had an accident at work and had to go to hospital.
Darwin’s theory of evolution
the quality of the teaching force
Another option is to rent somewhere for six months.
The Dutch fleet captured two English ships.
It’s important to understand other people, people from different backgrounds.
I have no interest in continuing this conversation.
the government and other political institutions
Does he have the right stuff (=qualities that make you able to deal with difficulties)?
Look, suppose you lost your job tomorrow, what would you do?
Court officials denied the rumours.
I didn’t know him; he wasn’t one of the usual crowd.
Strong family ties still linked them together.
A garnish helps to enhance the appearance of any dish.
In France women didn’t get the vote until 1945.
He was given a 30-second spot just after the news.
She had no financial resources.
After a few whiskies he started to expand a little.
the pressure of his hand on my arm
As I mentioned earlier, there have been a lot of changes recently.
Click here to connect to the Internet.
the finest indoor sports facility in the US
Our target audience is men aged between 18 and 35.
the presidential apartments
They took a blood sample to test for hepatitis.
I’m really at my best when I’m challenged.
I solved the problem by a process of elimination.
· head teachers and their staffs
There are now fears that the river could flood.
I don’t think they support that version of the program anymore.
There are severe penalties for late payment of taxes.
The police have issued a new appeal for information.
a highly controversial issue
advice on a whole range of subjects
a conducted tour of Berlin
We were soon absorbed into local village life.
Oh, that reminds me, I saw Jenny in town today.
The company must first resolve questions of strategy.
figures carved in relief
Similar principles apply in the case of older children (=the principles are the same as others that have been mentioned).
He’s a graduate in philosophy.
She felt cheated and used.
Lately there has been a trend towards hiring younger, cheaper employees.
Los Angeles Police Chief Willie L. Williams
claims for compensation
The conditions during the first half of the match were appalling.
Don’t forget to switch off before you go.
What is your marital status (=are you married or not)?
Striped tails are a common feature of many animals.
To my relief, they spoke English.
battery hens
So, yours truly was left to clean up.
an exhibition at the Community Arts Centre
A message will appear which will prompt you for certain information.
the forces of nature
I would be grateful if you would acknowledge receipt of this letter.
Ben slipped quietly out of the room.
Trading has been adversely affected by the downturn in consumer spending.
I can’t recall who gave me the information.
The commission is charged with investigating war crimes.
He left a letter for me to read in the event of his death.
He works in marketing and product development.
For centuries the country remained untouched by outside influences.
Teenage mothers often have no option but to (=have no other choice except to) live with their parents.
The police have been observing his movements.
The company found itself strapped for cash (=without enough money) to pay taxes.
She married young (=at a young age).
the official register of births, deaths, and marriages
The system has crashed (=stopped working).
Under normal conditions, people will usually do what requires least effort.
concern with worsening law and order
Two bodies were recovered from the wreckage.
Another focus of feminist debate has been the film industry.
We had underestimated the scale of the problem.
He was finding it painful to breathe.
a strategy to attract younger audiences to jazz
The documents may be used in evidence at the trial.
Your opinion is of little consequence to me.
The sample consisted of 98 secondary school teachers.
Was he being treated for any medical condition?
a switch in emphasis
There was an enormous oak table in the center of the room.
One of the sales clerks called security.
He had cheated in the test by using a calculator.
the force of gravity
He was sent on over 200 missions before being killed in action.
A structural survey revealed the full scale of the damage.
It is important to recognize how little we know about this disease.
The focus of interest in the series is what goes on in everyday life.
Are you alone? I just wanted a private word.
Churchill was installed as Chancellor of the university.
Detectives are working on a theory that he knew his murderer.
Ruth hesitated, uncertain of how to combine honesty and diplomacy in her answer.
Each of these oilfields could yield billions of barrels of oil.
Are you trying to get rid of me?
The weather could be a crucial factor in tomorrow’s game.
I am truly sorry.
The new credit cards will be of great benefit to our customers.
a female spider
The book came out last year to great critical acclaim (=critics said it was very good).
Guided tours are provided at no charge.
All eyes focussed on her.
a profession of faith
highly paid experts
These kids require a lot of structure and stability.
the concerns expressed by parents
Betty Coward was the driving force behind the project.
The court ruled that no compensation was due.
It’s been really hectic here. When things settle down, I’ll give you a call.
She speaks English fairly well.
The book gives parents advice on discipline.
They fell behind on their mortgage payments.
It was a tough race.
There are various techniques for dealing with industrial pollution.
No one doubts the justice of our cause.
Labour won the election with 40% of the poll.
The best way to explore the island is to hire a car.
Suddenly, he reversed himself completely.
a three-way split in the profits
She doesn’t leave the house for long stretches of time.
She respected him for his honesty.
What time do you go to mass?
The relative merits of both approaches have to be considered.
They decided to mount a legal challenge to the decision.
Unless anyone has anything to add, we’ll take a vote.
These talks are critical to the future of the peace process.
He’s got talent, I grant you, but he doesn’t work hard enough.
New York is where all the action is.
White men hold most of the jobs in senior management.
The final score was Southampton two, Leeds United nil.
He asked to speak to the person in charge.
Well, at any rate, the next meeting will be on Wednesday.
one of several authors contributing to the book
a harbour pilot
Can you split into groups of three now?
a powerful fighting force
He was clearly not a very stable person.
This is especially true in respect of the UK.
She tried to focus her mind on her work.
Mary declined a hot drink and went to her room.
a poll conducted by ‘USA Today’
She rents out two rooms to students.
a cattle shed
the socially aware novels of Dickens
The new laws are supposed to prevent crime.
Additives are expensive but are used in very low concentrations.
Nizan’s views were out of phase with the political climate of the time.
My computer can cope with huge amounts of data.
Employees are entitled to four weeks’ paid vacation annually.
We could hear the neighbours arguing.
Even so, the underlying trend is positive.
It is absolutely critical for us to know the truth.
They’ve agreed to give us the first option on their apartment.
Service is included in the bill.
I teach creative writing at Trinity College.
a new generation of more powerful PCs
The country has been building up its stock of weapons.
a man distributing leaflets to passers-by
Martial arts teach respect, discipline, and cooperation.
He relishes the prospect of a fight.
software to convert raw data into usable information
The curtain opened to reveal the grand prize.
There’s a bar, restaurant, and gym on site.
Ministers depend on civil servants for expert advice.
You didn’t get the job? Oh, tough luck!
We can extend our insurance cover to travel abroad.
He works every single day.
The senior partner has retired.
Could you put that in writing, please?
Can you charge this to my account please?
We must stop these rumours; the firm’s reputation is at risk.
Any item can be reserved on payment of a deposit.
government policy on higher education
The report exposes the weaknesses of modern medical practice.
Row after row of orange trees stretched to the horizon.
a curious coincidence
· The task proved to be difficult.
The jacket is available in various colours.
a campaign promise to pursue policies that will help the poor
The government now has an opportunity to demonstrate its commitment to reform.
Tourism is the country’s single biggest earner.
Her gaze settled on a door, and she wondered what was on the other side of it.
a forest environment
the collapse of the stock market
athletes pumped full of steroids
Eventually the truth emerged.
As a result of the pilots’ strike, all flights have had to be cancelled.
All the organizations involved have sent urgent appeals to the government, asking for extra funding.
Playing an instrument can be a form of emotional release.
oil reserves
my former husband
Cleo blushed. She had not meant to imply that he was lying.
I lost my concentration and fell asleep.
He had completely ignored her remark, preferring his own theory.
Why did you speak to him? You usually avoid him like the plague (=try hard to avoid him).
Immediately his heart rate (=the number of beats per minute) increased.
Try to get into a routine (=develop a fixed order of doing things).
Despite all our efforts to save the school, the authorities decided to close it.
A quarter of all workers admit to taking time off when they are not ill.
Sheena left her job and went to work for a rival company.
Defence spending absorbs almost 20% of the country’s wealth.
Will you witness my signature?
The area is used by the army for target practice.
This issue will be discussed in more detail in Chapter 5.
In many respects the new version is not as good as the old one.
Davis dismissed the allegations as being without foundation.
the transfer of assets within a group of companies
Running your own business usually involves working long hours.
families on a tight budget
The lamp shed a harsh yellow light.
She was told to wear flat shoes, on account of her back problem.
My father threatened to divorce her.
Betty just loves being the centre of attention.
He was wearing thick glasses.
He recovered himself enough to speak calmly.
He was sick in the evening, but the following day he was better.
a villa with easy access to the sea
Supporters demonstrated outside the courtroom during the trial.
It’s painful to watch her making the best of a terrible script.
topics of general interest (=that everyone wants to know about)
They work hard at school without giving the appearance of being particularly hard-working.
an advertising campaign
Having this disease does not necessarily mean that you will die young.
Come on Gina, get on the dance floor and do your stuff!
a signal failure (=when these lights do not work)
I wish you’d all quit complaining.
Some children find it difficult to talk to adults.
We weren’t sure about which route we should take.
Most people here are very dedicated; I’m afraid Rhea’s the exception that proves the rule.
She hit the target with deadly accuracy.
So things worked out for the best, I suppose.
a poll on eating habits
She has an amazing facility for languages.
Conditions in the prison were atrocious.
No words can do justice to the experience.
a Harvard professor of economics
Mike insisted that he was right.
The restaurant was full of coach parties (=groups of people travelling together on a coach).
The food had congealed into a sticky mass.
Their descriptions seemed to follow a set pattern (=always develop in the same way).
The United States is prepared to use military force to achieve its aims.
a professional hockey team
They employ a total of 150 staff.
a few spots of blood
It was always very important to me to be financially independent.
a modern construction
chicken stock
She often goes abroad on business.
He was the victim of an administrative error.
an emotional crisis
Her picture appeared on the screen.
A high level of anxiety was created by the introduction of cameras into the factory.
The long working hours put a severe strain on employees.
Fred owns nothing beyond the clothes on his back.
the divorce between theory and method
Their theories were badly thought out and very vulnerable to ridicule.
Finally she yielded to temptation and helped herself to a large slice of cake.
Most investments are expected to appreciate at a steady rate.
Animals have died as a consequence of coming into contact with this chemical.
How much are the monthly interest payments?
The military conflict continues to claim our undivided attention.
the needs of women who combine paid employment and care for their families
The scientists need to organize themselves and work as a team.
Most women have to watch their figure (=be careful not to get fat).
The new results confirm what most of us knew already.
I’m not going to run the marathon just to prove a point.
Ambulance crews are ready to spring into action (=suddenly start doing something) if anything goes wrong during the race.
A huge lump of rock had split off from the cliff face.
I won the 60-metre race, my first senior success.
This just confirms my worst fears.
The balance is due at the end of the month.
The company admitted that it had been a tough year.
Two spots of colour appeared in Jill’s cheeks.
He pushed his half-eaten salad aside and left.
Let’s have a vote on it.
a strong believer in conventional morals
Darker surfaces absorb heat.
It seems criminal that teachers are paid so little money.
Universities have suffered a dramatic drop in student numbers.
I’m worried and my work is beginning to suffer.
the Child Poverty Action Group
a revolutionary new drug that has just come onto the market
multimedia data objects
Mary is always honest and it went against the grain to tell lies.
A new management structure has been introduced.
Higgins is facing a charge of armed robbery.
Nuclear power has always been a topic that has sparked off considerable debate.
It was malaria, but Dr Lee hadn’t recognized the symptoms.
She had not shed a single tear during the funeral.
Was King Arthur a real historical figure?
He decided to adopt a different approach and teach the Bible through story-telling.
There have been four accidents involving Forest Service planes.
Money’s no object; I want the best.
The average American has not even thought about next year’s election.
people with alcohol problems (=people who drink too much)
Have we got a blank video (=one with nothing recorded on it yet) anywhere?
All applications must be submitted by Monday.
Stress is a contributing factor in many illnesses.
There needn’t be any more worries on that account.
The president came under severe criticism for his handling of the crisis.
an FBI agent
Jody has invested Alan with great power over her career.
a badly designed office
Without meaning to, she communicated her anxiety to her child.
We all laughed, with the exception of Maggie.
Sydney’s population expanded rapidly in the 1960s.
European orders represented 30 percent of our sales last year.
I know you’ve been under a lot of strain lately.
The trial has been a terrible strain for both of us.
She scored an average of 9.9 in the test.
The application was approved, subject to certain conditions.
raw passion
Her dress showed her tanned skin to great advantage.
The banks have decided to extend credit to the company (=allow them to borrow more money).
The US faces severe economic problems.
Try to give each student some feedback on the task.
the prosecution’s chief witness
The scandal threatened to undermine the institution of the presidency.
There is very little contact between the two tribes.
The vaccination program has been a major factor in the improvement of health standards.
Issues like food additives do concern me.
We can’t afford to go on vacation this year.
Please leave the building in an orderly fashion.
We need a central bank that is independent of the government.
Yield to traffic on the left.
Steve’s still looking for full-time employment.
It’s the best result that could be expected under the circumstances.
At present we have no evidence of life on other planets.
a complex system of highways
The inn is advertised as being from the early 16th century.
She was too ill to remain at home.
We didn’t get a single reply to the advertisement.
I find his books pretty tough going (=difficult to read).
The government appears deeply split on this issue.
Do you fancy a spot of lunch?
Several leading figures resigned from the party.
The book set the pattern for over 40 similar historical romances.
It doesn’t qualify as a date if you bring your children with you.
He was a perfectionist who didn’t suffer fools gladly.
There is no evidence to connect them with the attack.
They say I’m too old, but I’m going to prove them all wrong.
a star of stage and screen (=the theatre and films)
He watched with relief as the girl nodded.
The background looks out of focus.
temperatures approaching 35° C
We’ve seen an enormous growth in the number of businesses using the Web.
I was shocked by the sheer scale (=very big scale) of the destruction.
She gradually made her way up the social scale.
You’ll want to take full advantage of the beach-front clubs.
They dined in an official capacity with other European leaders.
He thought he had solved the puzzle.
Children like a stable environment.
He married Bea in 1925.
My car does 12 miles per litre (=for each litre of petrol).
I sent a message to Kitty via her sister.
The bird has sharply defined black and rust markings.
The textbook was first published in 1858 and is now in its 39th edition.
The expression on his face confirmed me in my suspicions.
an alarm system
He enjoys everything he does in both his professional and his private life.
If Jo can’t attend the meeting, I could go instead.
Only 29% of lone parents receive financial support from their former partners.
The dry summer has further increased the strain on water resources.
I was under pressure from my parents to become a teacher.
Did you find the job a strain?
Bill wants to spend a large sum on modernizing the farm.
the National Union of Teachers
Regular physical activity helps to control your weight.
a rifle range
Feed the plants to encourage new growth.
a tennis coach
The Bears destroyed the Detroit Lions 35–3.
electronic data transfer
The cars had to be recalled due to an engine fault.
We crashed Joe’s party yesterday.
It was the first time that I had conducted business in Brazil.
We were able to pump clean water from several of the wells.
a paperback edition
depressions in the ground
The thought of seeing her again was all that sustained me.
Paintings representing religious themes were common in medieval times.
Work on a clean, flat surface.
a poll of 1,000 people
the surest route to disaster
Her new book has scored a spectacular success.
Sometimes I find it hard to cope.
the official representative from the American administration
The police denied claims that the men were tortured.
the target of a one-third reduction in road accidents
We sipped wine to the strains of Beethoven.
He’s been in a real mood all day.
a quiet exchange between the judge and the clerk
He hated the school and everything it represented.
Soap is a cleansing agent.
communicating doors
In an average week I drive about 250 miles.
In the school library, he hunted out books on politics.
The care of old people necessarily involves quite a lot of heavy lifting.
I had to force myself to get up this morning.
The survey showed that Britain’s trees are in good health.
We need to get our priorities right.
Combine all the ingredients in a large bowl.
My heart began to race and my mind went blank.
Pilcher was suspected of giving away government secrets to the enemy.
a primary tumour
a description of the stolen vehicle
computer-aided design
The imported fabric is 30% cheaper and compares favourably (=is as good) in quality.
She’s the kind of woman who takes pride in her appearance.
rapid post-war industrial development
He writes fiction that marries up realism and the supernatural.
I would love to be able to grant her wish.
They have a flat in Crouch End.
In the field of drug development, the culture of secrecy is deep and strong.
I must take issue with you over what you said yesterday.
The telephone rang, and he answered it immediately.
Truffaut’s childhood memories were the subject of his first film.
What makes you suppose we’re going to sell the house?
topics of concern to television viewers
After his father’s death, he was able to rise to power and take centre stage.
Many working women rely on relatives to help take care of their children.
an electric motor
High unemployment is a direct result of the recession.
Payment can be made by cheque or credit card.
You must never give in to pressure.
Window locks are fairly cheap and absolutely essential.
Helen was put in the capable hands of hair stylist Daniel Herson.
She gets a percentage for every record sold.
Counselling was given as a primary therapy for depression.
I reminded myself to watch them closely.
She already has two successful novels to her credit.
Becka was very self-conscious about her spots.
a well-known screen actor
Whoever they appoint will assume responsibility for all financial matters.
There’s no way out! We’re trapped!
Always stretch before exercising.
Are dictionaries allowed in the exam?
The project aims to provide an analysis of children’s emotions.
a retirement village for the elderly
Smith was hired on a six-month trial basis.
He distinguished himself on several occasions in the civil war.
The Greens increased their share of the vote from 2.9% to 4.9%.
the unfortunate events that forced his resignation
Jill Sharpe was little more than a name, a glossy image on a television screen.
Lawrence’s novel was eventually recognized as a work of genius.
They spent their evenings drinking wine and sharing confidences.
The original 1965 bottle is now a collector’s item (=one of a set of objects people like to collect because they are interesting or valuable).
Do you think we should lower the price?
It is vital that you keep accurate records.
My bank balance isn’t good.
Grant that we may know your presence and love.
As an actress she has graduated from small roles to more substantial parts.
money raised for the relief effort
The thief was caught on a security camera.
Regular exercise is vital for your health.
George was in no mood to be sociable.
The students agreed to drop their action (=decided not to continue with a court case or an official complaint).
She was looking forward to putting her ideas into action (=doing the things she had planned).
We aim to capture eight percent of the UK wine market.
These flowers will not grow in cold climates.
He just took it for granted that he would pass the exam.
The police are investigating the matter, and he may face criminal charges (=be officially accused of a crime).
romantic notions about becoming a famous actress
He does mountain biking and skiing, and stuff like that.
They kicked the door down using sheer brute force.
The police managed to gain access through an upstairs window.
a lack of management skills
Meg spotted someone coming out of the building.
Higher degrees in English are a target for foreign students.
There was a blank expression on her face (=no expression on her face).
Peace cannot be imposed by force.
Paris has lost some of its magic for me over the years.
currents of warm air rising from the plain
The UN will allow the use of force against aircraft violating the zone.
Nowadays there is more sharing of domestic chores.
A new round of trade talks is in prospect.
The house had a fairly large garden.
She suffered temporary loss of vision after being struck on the head.
Even in July the wind chill factor (=the degree to which the air feels colder because of the wind) can be intense.
I couldn’t afford the rent on my own.
her decision to retire from her position as librarian of the law society
Most of the action takes place in San Francisco.
the demand for new housing
He’s past his peak as a tennis player.
an attempt to slow down the rate of economic growth
the design team
This is the perfect vehicle for Fleming to make his triumphant return to the stage.
Several developers have designs on the property.
There’s a self-help group for people who have issues with money.
I have a wife and two children to support.
They made a direct approach to the minister of education.
Teaching is an obvious choice of career if you like working with children.
A loving home is essential for a child’s personal growth.
They’re an odd couple.
You’ll score points with your girlfriend if you send her roses.
The Pan-Africanist Congress split from the ANC in 1959.
He had enough money to pay off his outstanding debts.
It would be a crime to waste all that good food.
She’s over 80, but is still very active.
The program is under threat of closure due to lack of funding.
You can take out a policy (=buy one) for as little as $11.00 a month.
Even the cheapest property was out of our price range (=too expensive for us).
flowers which are well adapted to harsh winters
a state of inner conflict
The refugees left to avoid getting bombed.
We are offering incentives for companies to locate in our city.
She complained that no one had been at the airport to meet her.
Do you have evidence that this treatment works?
The school refused to take any of the parents’ criticisms on board.
I think we can safely assume that interest rates will go up again soon.
a creative solution to the problem
· He remains undecided about what to do.
I’ve been setting aside a few pounds each week.
the ongoing debate between environmentalists and the road-building lobby over the future of our countryside
The goalkeeper is still out of action with a knee strain.
Stephen would do well if only he applied himself.
He hasn’t the remotest interest in sport.
I was reminded how lucky I was.
We have made some minor changes to the program.
What time was she admitted?
One of the bulls had to be destroyed.
It’s only a 20-minute walk, half an hour at the outside.
Newspapers attacked the government for failing to cut taxes.
a professional tennis player
Jack came back after five years to settle some old scores.
Do you have any previous experience of this type of work?
Could we have the menu, please?
the applications of genetic engineering in agriculture
What kind of stuff do you like to read?
the general trend towards the centralization of political power
The team is stronger now they’ve included Roscoe.
People differ from one another in their ability to handle stress.
The matter is now the subject of a court action (=a court case).
He was forced to retire early because of poor health.
The referee gave him the benefit of the doubt.
· One plane crashed with another in midair.
Travellers on a budget might prefer to camp.
the US edition of Marie Claire magazine
It can be painful to leave the house in which you were born.
The budget has a regular spot on the agenda.
The prime minister was criticized for the way in which he handled the crisis.
The book launched his career as a novelist.
· Two planes crashed in midair.
Domestic flights (=flights that stay inside a particular country) go from Terminal 1.
Exactly how do we link words to objects?
Here, the river divides into three channels.
The marble is smooth and polished, making a strong contrast with the worn stonework around it.
Surely you’re not going to give up? I thought you were made of sterner stuff (=were more determined).
Many of the poor acknowledged him as their spiritual leader.
Is your pension taxed at source (=before it is paid to you)?
A letter appeared in ‘The Times’ claiming Fleming as the discoverer of penicillin.
Most motorists manage without the benefit of four-wheel drive.
You may qualify for unemployment benefit.
There is no target date for completion of the new project.
the exact spot where the king was executed
Meg’s new book is still well ahead of schedule.
The hotel wants to expand its business by adding a swimming pool.
the police shooting range
The exhibition features paintings by Picasso.
Sara wasn’t at school last week, with the result that she missed an important test.
Not a bad effort for a beginner!
Why Joan ever married such an idiot in the first place is beyond me.
You’re wrong, and I can prove it.
The film featured Brando as the Godfather.
Responses to the individual items are scored on a scale ranging from 0 to 12.
Do you believe in magic?
It seemed odd that he wanted a picture of me.
Some hotels offer special rates for children.
A high percentage of married women have part-time jobs.
an exchange of political prisoners
A study of language should feature in an English literature course.
The witness made a positive identification.
Charlie thinks money will solve all his problems.
Pressure for change has become urgent.
The number of adults who cannot read is a sad comment on the quality of our schools.
Two of the victims were still on the critical list Sunday night.
The students are from a variety of ethnic backgrounds.
He filled the gap left by Hirst’s retirement.
Only ticket-holders will be admitted into the stadium.
the concentration of power in the hands of a few
Pat’s job brings her into contact with the problems people face when they retire.
There are various ways to answer your question.
His people came to him demanding justice.
These teaching materials can be adapted for older children.
Listen to this. It’s a massive song.
John appeared to have no interest in girls.
a well-designed heating system
a specific example of alcohol’s effect on the body
The tower was designed by Gilbert Scott.
the company’s sales force
The built-in thermostat guarantees that the water remains at the same temperature all the time.
children who are HIV positive
She had an ability to put people at their ease.
Is community service just a soft option for criminals?
An alternative route is along the Via Unione.
She had reached the grand old age of 80.
the outstanding political figure of his time
All women over 50 will be regularly screened.
Joel stood apart from the group, frowning.
Grand Central Station
Villagers responded with offers of help.
Children are most vulnerable to abuse within their own home.
He suspected that his phone calls were being monitored.
Leave the last page blank.
a literary agent
It could not be proved in a court of law.
Nothomb is a Belgian author.
A hexagon is a six-sided figure.
Todd had planned the journey down to the smallest detail.
She looked about 50, I suppose.
an object of study
Depardieu is making a film with one of the big Hollywood studios.
She and her sister are always competing for attention.
I hope that the decision taken today will be to the benefit of the whole nation.
I’m replacing Sue on the team.
It is helpful to discuss your problems with your friends.
No organization has admitted responsibility for the bombing.
The first edition was published in 1765.
The family has had a tough time of it these last few months.
Write down all the positive things about your life.
one of the most well-liked TV personalities
Check and adjust the brakes regularly.
nature conservation
Compare and contrast the main characters of these two novels.
It remains to be seen whether the operation was successful.
the construction of a new airport
I’m keeping all my options open for the moment.
Don’t miss the train, whatever you do.
a little company that hires out boats to tourists
Peter was already at the door slipping on his shoes.
I never had the benefit of a university education.
We met on a coach tour in Italy.
The trade embargo has been in force for a year.
I forced the lock on the cupboard to see what was inside.
All the exam results will be displayed on the noticeboard.
Loneliness is a disease of our urban communities.
He had never handled a weapon before.
the long and painful process of growing up
professional contacts
I’m not supposed to tell anyone.
Small independent bookstores simply can’t compete with the big national chains.
I don’t drink alcohol anymore.
They decided to inform the police
John Lee was getting ready to play his stuff.
We’ll still be friends, whatever happens.
She began urging him towards the front door.
If you’re still not satisfied, you may be able to claim compensation.
Nina chewed her lower lip anxiously.
A well-designed sports shoe should absorb the impact on your feet.
The staff were very helpful.
Turn to page 5, column 2.
I didn’t realize putting on a play involved so much work.
furious trading on the bond market
We rank among the safest countries in the world.
We went on to the next item on the agenda.
They didn’t have any trainers in my size, and anyway I’d already decided I’d rather save the money.
A sonnet has a fixed rhyming pattern.
a highly strung child
Good teamwork is a powerful tool (=very effective method) for effective management.
I’d like to extend my thanks to all the catering staff.
Results suggest that diet is very important.
Steve was in a particularly bad mood when he got back.
Parking restrictions in the town centre came into force last month.
Exam results are used as performance indicators (=things that show how well something is done) for schools.
Can you recommend a good lawyer?
the government’s chief medical officer
low rents designed to attract new businesses to the area
He’s been on unemployment for two months.
Tickets are on a ‘first come, first served’ basis, so stake your claim now.
A disapproving frown settled on her face.
For many people it is religion that gives meaning to their existence.
Motor-racing has largely been a male preserve (=something that only men have been involved with).
The finance department handles all the accounts.
The subjects covered in this chapter are exercise and nutrition.
The roof may need extra support.
Rescuers had abandoned all hope of finding any more survivors.
Laura’s sensitive about her weight.
The rain had eased off a bit.
The explosion occurred at 5.30 a.m.
She certainly knows how to get results.
Throughout her career she remained very sensitive to criticism.
Evidence to support these claims is still lacking.
Nearly half the students said they were in debt.
I opened the door and looked outside.
a broom handle
The dog settled on the grass to enjoy its bone.
The computer industry has expanded greatly over the last decade.
They took the engine apart to see what was wrong.
Why don’t you try phoning them one more time, for good measure?
He was obsessed with physical fitness.
a stuffed owl
She said she wanted to leave, and her father respected her wishes.
The work was carried out as per your instructions.
Recent years have witnessed the collapse of the steel industry.
Mount McKinley is Alaska’s highest peak.
The trains provided cheap travel for the masses.
He stepped aside to let Katherine go in first.
The next stage is to link the film up with the soundtrack.
One of the chief causes of crime today is drugs.
Lewis and his father drifted apart after he moved to New York.
My heart was pumping fast.
I finally qualified as a pilot.
Marijuana can provide pain relief for some cancer patients.
families that can afford domestic help (=help with cleaning, washing etc)
There is a major problem with parking in London.
Augustine was later to combine elements of this philosophy with the teachings of Christianity.
This section will attempt to demonstrate how the Bank of England operates.
He is practising every day, in preparation for the ice-skating championship.
a new strain of the flu virus
a project manager
Some nearby buildings sustained minor damage.
Tom acknowledged her presence by a brief glance.
The Coroner extended his sympathy to the victim’s family.
negative numbers
The college acquired a reputation for very high standards.
His outspokenness denied him access to the magic circle and he was never given high office.
Government troops have succeeded in capturing the rebel leader.
On no condition should untrained personnel use the equipment.
They’ll be demonstrating how to handle modern, high performance cars.
local hospital
The snow was easing up.
I’m considered a reformed character these days (=someone who has stopped doing bad things).
Anything that will mean a better deal for our children gets my vote.
My father put all his money into stock market bonds.
Work out the exact design before you start construction.
a heart monitor
official statistics about illegal drug use
Opposition leaders will be watching carefully to see how the prime minister handles the crisis.
Technological advances are the chief agents of change.
policies designed to win votes in the South
a desire for knowledge
I spotted a police car behind us.
a company’s business strategy
an independent young woman
After her husband’s death, Jackie went to the city to settle his affairs.
Drivers under 21 are regarded as poor risks by insurance companies.
a very brief bikini
At least he died suddenly and didn’t suffer.
The world’s largest market for illegal drugs is the US.
The volunteers contribute their own time to the project.
the medical profession
One of the penalties of being famous is the loss of privacy.
the digestive system
She’d always loved animals since she was a little kid.
the Queen’s performance of official duties
The house was hidden behind a screen of bushes.
The conference approved a proposal for a referendum.
a reward for information leading to the capture of the murderers
He went on staring at the TV screen.
Organizers of the project hope that international links will be forged.
a weak sugar solution
a narrow opening in the fence
We all had a grand time.
I don’t suppose you have any idea where my address book is, do you?
lax security at airline check-in desks
You can use it, but it’s at your own risk.
They played only a minor role in local government.
Both men had been shot at point-blank range.
She’s a partner in a law firm.
some new bathroom scales (=scales that you use to weigh yourself)
a sudden attack of nerves
Access to the restrooms is through the foyer.
She claimed that I cheated at chess.
Football can be a very physical game.
the journey toward spiritual growth
a speed limit of 40 miles per hour
The girl’s family have made a public appeal for help to try and catch her killer.
With a few minor exceptions, the new edition is much like the previous one.
I have the greatest respect for Jane’s work.
Several people were standing in the hallway outside of his room.
a highly sensitive electronic camera
The party split under the strain.
The population of these cities ranges between 3 and 5 million.
Mr Leesom proposed Mrs Banks for the position of Treasurer (=he suggested formally that she should be the treasurer).
The party’s new policies show a swing towards the centre.
We soon found that prices differed enormously.
a televised debate
We have two senior politicians on our panel tonight.
the state of the art market
Mapplethorpe’s photographs were first put on display in New York.
The whole of her being had been taken over by a desire to return to her homeland.
I don’t suppose you’d give me a lift to the station?
The earthquake has so far claimed over 3,000 lives.
When water comes into contact with air, carbon dioxide is released.
a photographer’s studio
a major road
It was generally a positive conversation.
Don’t fall into the trap of investing all your money in one place.
I also saw that news item in the Sunday Times.
There is no risk to public health.
Our company has a commitment to quality and customer service.
Competitive sports encourage children to work together as a team.
Fill in and return the claim form as soon as it arrives.
The attack began at dawn.
Honda is trying to increase its market share.
the need to respect human rights
the freedom of a property owner to make a contract with respect to his property
his chief rival for the job
No one may enter without my authority.
the behaviour of human chromosomes
conflicts over wage settlements
The sun emerged from behind the clouds.
No responsible therapist will claim to cure your insomnia.
Rising unemployment is posing serious problems for the administration.
The people now long to be quit of war.
Mandela’s status as a world leader
This argument is difficult to sustain.
Collins was not available for comment on Thursday night.
The question caught him off balance.
Her shouting attracted some curious glances from other people in the restaurant.
In 1991 she retired from politics and took up writing as a career.
The money will have to be split three ways.
We stopped by Alice’s house for a brief visit.
People tend to need less sleep as they get older.
It afforded her the opportunity to improve her tennis skills.
the sum of £4,000
He wanted to go unnoticed, to be one of the crowd.
Dressing is a task which we do every day as a matter of routine (=done regularly and not unusual).
I go to the gym as often as I can.
She overcame her own natural reserve.
This washing machine has a 50-minute cycle.
Most new cars are bought on credit.
Linda didn’t want to see Roy while her emotions were still raw.
She carefully avoided his eyes (=did not look directly at his face).
Leading scientists got together in Paris to compare notes on current research.
The show attracts a regular audience of about 20 million.
a major banking centre
highly sensitive information
The lawyer helped to organize a group of parents who took action for their children.
a poster advertising the concert
We have been asked not to say anything for security reasons.
Polluted water supplies are a risk to public health.
advanced technology
The company isn’t capable of handling an order that large.
It is not always easy to rank the students in order of ability.
I charged the shoes on Visa.
animals which are lower down the evolutionary scale (=the range of animals that have developed gradually over a long time)
The school teaches pupils from different ethnic groups.
What’s the status of the trade talks?
I know he feels upset, and I can relate to that.
On the landlord’s instructions, the barmaid refused to serve him.
The factory is under new management.
She is being treated at Walton Hospital, where her condition is described as ‘satisfactory’.
a local housing agency
There’s no profit in letting meetings drag on.
a dance routine
These investments should yield a reasonable return.
a tool shed
The law gives workers the right to organize and bargain collectively.
The church fulfils a valuable social function.
Photographers need to have an eye for detail.
He’s the spitting image of his mother.
Try to involve as many children as possible in the game.
That would mean putting other children at risk.
The judge awarded me first prize.
There are now so many tourists that the area has become a victim of its own success.
The second survey was concerned with working-class culture more generally.
I wouldn’t lower myself to speak to her after what she’s done.
He was the first to break ranks with Ceausescu and publicly criticise his policies.
He’s married with three kids.
We seem to have forgotten the true meaning of Christmas.
A test satellite was launched from Cape Canaveral.
a high-school graduate
Cash was taken during a burglary of the apartment.
It is helpful for family members to gain a basic understanding of the illness.
The 800 metres is not his best event.
Jean eased back on the pillows and relaxed.
The state police are investigating the incident.
In an official statement, she formally announced her resignation.
Communities of otters are slowly returning to British rivers.
Recent pressure at work may account for his behavior.
a flower and shrub border
The best solution would be for them to separate.
Successive presidents have tried to reverse this trend, but without success.
Roberts is researching the effect of social class on educational achievement.
the process of economic change
scraps of material
The tourist industry yielded an estimated $2.25 billion for the state last year.
It’s worth mentioning (=it is important enough to mention) that they only studied a very small number of cases.
Lectures have replaced the old tutorial system.
The instructions seem fairly straightforward.
temporary pain relief
a crash of thunder
Go and play outside.
I forgot to set the burglar alarm.
The police are investigating a series of attacks in the area.
an appeal to the European Court of Human Rights
I’ve got a few thousand dollars I’m looking to invest.
The match will be screened live on television.
Who won the women’s singles?
Under no circumstances are you to go out.
a persuasive speaker with a natural talent for leadership
The budget for photography has been cut.
It’s impossible to predict what will happen next.
a modest knee-length dress
We’d like two rooms with connecting doors (=doors that join the rooms).
People suffering from this condition should not smoke.
He had designs on her.
people with severe physical disabilities
It’s outside my experience, I’m afraid.
Mahler’s Symphony No. 3 in D minor
He had no visual image of her, only her name.
It is difficult to retain top management.
The cool room provided relief from the terrible heat outdoors.
the range of possibilities offered to students
The boys charged noisily into the water.
Can you take out the garbage when you go?
The landlord provides board and lodging (=meals and a place to stay).
I was furious, so I went for a run to get it out of my system.
We were challenged by the security guard at the gate.
the rights of the individual
I felt happiness and relief flooding over me.
For best results, always use fresh ingredients when you are cooking.
The walls were thick with ivy.
Some of the most dramatic events in American history happened here.
efforts to bring peace to the region
The exhibition will run for an extra week, due to popular demand.
Officers observed him driving at 90 miles per hour.
a recording studio in Nashville
the preparation of the budget
Let’s put it to the vote. All those in favor raise your hands.
a powerful right-foot shot on goal
I can’t remember what happened immediately before the crash.
What an extraordinary thing to do!
He paused to adjust his spectacles.
The president outlined his vision for the future.
Taste the soup and adjust the seasoning.
The degree of drought is largely a function of temperature and drainage.
Some people believe the universe was created by a big explosion.
the power to hire and fire (=employ and dismiss people)
October 22nd is the date set for the report’s release.
nurses, social workers, and other people in the caring professions (=ones that involve looking after people)
They are putting pressure on people to vote yes.
The death of her friend had disturbed the balance of her mind.
The school trip has become an annual event.
cheques received in payment for goods supplied
· His parents did not want him to marry her.
a new washing powder that will shift any stain
the physical and emotional state of the patient
an instant success
He seems to be going through a crisis.
The festival was a great success, and preparations are underway (=have started) for another one next summer.
The Museum is so short of funds (=has so little money) it may have to sell the painting.
There was a big damp spot on the wall.
Keynes observed that humans fall into two classes.
Advertising is an intensely competitive business.
The chief of police tried to justify his actions.
Is there a call-back facility on this phone?
the degree of interaction between teacher and student
The walls are about two meters thick.
One student performs the experiment, while his partner observes.
I felt that my patience was being strained to the limit.
a strike by ambulance staff
Because of pollution, this lake is now too acid to support fish.
We are learning about how genes are organized.
Whatever I suggest, he always disagrees.
the issue of identity cards to all non-residents
We charge a flat fee for car hire.
AIDS victims and other patients who are terminally ill
the proposed budget cuts
When Kyle was a baby, we used to take him for rides in the car to settle him down.
The Government wants to reduce tobacco consumption by 40%.
We offer an excellent benefits package.
Republicans captured three Senate seats from the Democrats.
I like my steak rare.
They were well aware that the company was losing money.
I have already been approached by several other companies (=offered a job, work etc).
Great cheers went up when he scored in the final minute of the game.
She felt completely at ease with Bernard.
the royal family
The prospect of peace seems remote.
a range of services
They have offices in countries as far apart as India and Peru.
areas with high rates of crime
Our sales manager has secured several big accounts recently.
Luckily the pilot saw the other plane just in time, and a disaster was narrowly averted.
Any more cheek from you and you’ll get a thick ear.
I hate to say it, but it was a relief to have him out of the house.
Having to stay indoors all day is tough on a kid.
I was still asleep when the alarm went off.
Reverse the paper in the printer.
a man of great resource
The volcano became active last year with a series of eruptions.
Select an option from the main menu.
Metaphor is a common literary device.
The house will need a lot of outside repairs before we can sell it.
· He and the waiter started arguing with each other.
Supposing it really is a fire!
I have another 20-odd years to work before I retire.
You have to submit your application before the end of the month.
the collapse of an apartment building during the earthquake
Crawford stressed the need for more housing downtown.
He was curious about how she would react.
Can I crash at your place on Saturday night?
This cupboard’s full of junk.
Bridget was careful not to take him for granted.
individual portions of jam
To prove his point (=show that he was right), he mentioned several other experiments which had produced similar results.
This technique was then adapted and refined by the more sophisticated cultures of the ancient world.
He was the hot favourite for the Booker Prize.
Quit it, Robby, or I’ll tell mom!
Laurie finds it difficult to relate to children.
I’d like to reserve a table for two.
Philip feared Edward would lay claim to the Scottish crown.
The meal cost $25 per head (=for or by each person).
The money side of the business is your concern.
The study demonstrates the link between poverty and malnutrition.
allowable concentrations of pesticides in drinking water
the performance of his official duties
The key issue is whether workers should be classified as ‘employees’.
The polls will close in an hour.
You are required by law to wear a seat belt.
I want to thank everyone who has encouraged and supported me.
Stress has an effect on both your physical and mental health.
Handguns are freely available on the open market (=for anyone to buy).
The meat was declared unfit for human consumption.
The party is split over the issue of immigration.
As I recall, it was you who suggested this idea in the first place.
I’ve never lived abroad before.
A vast crowd gathered in the main square.
To conclude, I’d like to express my thanks to my family.
The team is greater than the sum of its parts.
The youth is described as being 18 to 19 years old.
Aside from Durang’s performance, the actors are ordinary.
If you know the neighbourhood, you have an understanding of what the children are like.
There were many more deaths than was first supposed.
I didn’t think the film gave the issue serious treatment.
a computer with an 18-inch colour screen
Too many MPs use debates as a chance to score political points.
The force of the impact knocked the breath out of her.
a beautiful stretch of countryside
Split the pineapple down the middle.
There is little evidence to support such explanations.
Improved rail transport is essential for business.
Liverpool are challenging for the title (=in a position where they could win).
the drug culture that is destroying so many young lives today
He doesn’t handle stress very well.
The legs on our card table collapse so we can store it in the closet.
There are a number of options available.
the main route into Leeds city centre
It’s important to build up a network of professional contacts.
Every teacher ought to be challenging kids to think about current issues.
The film has great appeal for young audiences.
a program to raise academic standards
deep scores in the wood
We are conducting a survey of consumer attitudes towards organic food.
He was always modest about his role in the Everest expedition.
This species of plant is becoming increasingly rare.
She rarely sleeps for eight hours at a stretch (=without stopping).
A serious accident can have a dramatic effect on your family’s finances.
Women should be portrayed in a more positive light.
Polls indicate that education is the top issue with voters.
She’s got a magic touch with babies.
software that performs a specific function
The trial was held under tight security.
He always seems to be at the centre of things.
a powerful telescope
We plan to extend the kitchen by six feet.
You might be entitled to housing benefit.
Some changes have been made to the computer’s basic design.
the rapid growth of world population
Most of Kurt’s other pictures were variations on the same theme.
Many scientists remain unconvinced by the current evidence.
Is it really necessary to conduct experiments on animals?
The women took an instant dislike to one another.
The age of the candidates ranged from 29 to 49 with an average age of 37.
projected sales figures
The branch came down with a crash.
a knife with a carved wooden handle
the handle of his cup
an estimated figure of $200 million
a safer future for the planet
Kate graduated from medical school last year.
a Harvard graduate
The recent rise in crime is a matter of considerable public concern.
Church leaders are prepared to meet the terrorists in an effort to (=in order to try to) find peace.
It is still too early to reach a conclusion on this point.
The room affords a beautiful view over the city.
a tall figure in a hat
Our goal is to prepare students to go into the business world with confidence.
The company provides cheap Internet access. In addition, it makes shareware freely available.
They valued her ability to empathize and connect with others.
global climate change
Does the price include postage?
Nurses are demanding higher rates of pay.
a fire in a remote mountain area
Children should be encouraged to take up outside interests, such as music or sport.
One hundred and twenty people died in China’s worst air disaster.
We must encourage the planting of new trees and preserve our existing woodlands.
The car industry cannot survive without government help.
I make no claim to understand the complexities of the situation.
the basic principles of physics
She’s proved herself to be a very reliable worker.
The Act extended the grounds (=legal reasons) for divorce.
Will the job fit in with your family commitments?
a complicated pattern
Relax! Everything’s fine.
The first phase of renovations should be finished by January.
How can you maintain a family on $900 a month?
an explosion ten times more powerful than the Hiroshima bomb
an order slip
a battery-operated hairdryer
It wouldn’t do you any harm to get some experience first.
Bolton is a mill town just outside Manchester.
I want you to treat Hayley with kid gloves today. She’s still upset about her father.
You can’t really attach a label to this type of art.
She has decided to quit show business.
Glen was calm and composed at the funeral.
I was sure he was involved in some kind of criminal activity.
I suppose you thought you were being clever!
The hotel is highly recommended.
He slipped on the ice.
Have you seen the latest issue?
I couldn’t have made it through those times without the support of my boyfriend Rob.
the support band
He coped quite well as manager while still captaining the team.
He was, to all appearances, a respectable, successful businessman.
The company has adopted a strict no-smoking policy.
A few pages of the original manuscript still survive.
What’s required is a complete reorganization of the system.
The rope snapped under the strain.
My father experienced an identity crisis in middle age.
Coen’s economic forecast assumes a 3.5% growth rate.
He swung at the ball, but didn’t connect.
She passed her driving test at the first attempt.
a strategy for dealing with crime
The latest public opinion poll showed that 25% of us consider ourselves superstitious.
They conducted a campaign of bombings and assassinations.
the stock of housing in rural areas
the distinction between fantasy and reality
Sophia had, in a sense, married beneath her (=married someone of a lower social class than her).
As usual, Simon affected complete boredom.
We are often attracted to somebody first by their physical appearance.
This was bound to happen sooner or later.
Local government has recently emerged as a major issue.
The book is designed as a reference manual.
Governments should be encouraged to get rid of all nuclear weapons.
The earthquakes measured 7 on the Richter scale.
In this stage of a rape case, the focus often shifts onto the victim and her conduct.
Interstate Highway 75
Jones ran a good campaign.
How does this add to our understanding of the problem?
the Lord Mayor’s official residence
the Italian Ministry of Culture
Higher mortgage rates have already had a major impact on spending.
She was assessed in the normal way, and placed on the waiting list.
free legal advice
A brief history of Western culture.
parents who impose their own moral values on their children
University teachers must publish regularly to gain promotion.
Police arrested several men, who were later released.
Her behaviour is creating a lot of problems.
She has responded well to treatment.
Hungary’s telephone network
She’s suffering from severe depression.
a small metal object
a slip in house prices
After several burglaries in the area, security is now a high priority (=very important and needing attention soon).
snow-capped mountain peaks
The economy is performing well.
Bauhaus architects thought that function was more important than form.
Richardson played a vital role in the team’s success.
Ideally, the surface should yield slightly under pressure.
Cats are not able to perceive colour.
a class in creative writing (=a subject studied at school or college, where you write your own stories, poems etc)
The scheme will now be extended after a successful pilot project (=a small trial to test if an idea will be successful).
The president appealed to the international community for aid for the flood victims.
Only a thin curtain divided her cabin from his.
Different amino acids combine to form proteins.
It’s not typical of Gill to be so critical.
The program would generate a lot of new jobs.
The Council is currently reviewing the way it deals with planning applications.
a deep male voice
An informer supplied the police with the names of those involved in the crime.
It’s a sign of the approach of middle age.
Most Indian restaurants offer free delivery.
I pay the rent at the beginning of every month.
The trees were starting to shed their leaves.
His popularity slipped further after a series of scandals.
Cabbage can be eaten raw.
statistics for injuries at work
How thick should the glass in the tank be?
The health center serves all patients, regardless of their ability to pay.
There’s a clause in the policy that I’d like to discuss.
Recycling is an industrial process.
a blank cassette
Success depends on a clear understanding of the problem.
UN monitors will remain in the country to supervise the elections.
Russia’s finance minister
The trips are planned with military precision.
Her first play was a critical success (=critics said it was good).
a crash victim
a line stretching around the block
We had a rare old time at the party.
It took time to adjust myself to motherhood.
A week in the mountains should recharge my batteries.
a TV studio
The pregnancy test was negative.
the British Boxing Board of Control
the Scottish legal system
The temperature is carefully monitored.
As soon as she graduated from college, she started to play the market (=risk money on the stock market).
the Grand Hotel
Could Donna’s version of what happened that night be correct?
It’s highway robbery, charging that much for gas!
The recent name change has been the source of some confusion.
our journey through life
Physical exercise is a good way of releasing stress.
The school has a system of rewards and punishments to encourage good behaviour.
The appeal has nearly reached its target of £100,000.
What time are you supposed to be there?
Copies of your documents should be kept in a safe place, well out of harm’s way.
The male is usually bigger and more brightly coloured than the female.
a smooth braking action
an ancient walled city
Here’s an article which might interest you.
The chief reason for this is that people are living longer.
I shifted into second gear.
I feel I’m not able to cope well with the pressures of life.
She truly believed he was innocent.
The baron was exposed as a liar and a cheat.
If your employment status changes, your tax code will be adjusted accordingly.
Cabinet members are directly responsible to the president.
She has a serious heart condition.
traditional rural crafts
If anything goes wrong, I will hold you personally responsible.
a minor road
evidence that vitamin C gives protection against cancer
Bentley was, by his own account, over-sensitive to criticism.
his expanding waistline
Outside of love, the best thing you can give a child is attention.
New Yorkers build on a grand scale.
The meat was tough and hard to chew.
The World Health Organization has recognized alcoholism as a disease since 1951.
What’s the meaning of this? I asked you to be here an hour ago!
Everyone is free to engage in peaceful political activity.
a coach trip to Scotland
a singles night at the club
You can’t beat the system.
· Our profession have been keen to use new technology.
She claims she is willing to throw the switch of the electric chair.
Linda was something of a character.
The certificate qualifies you to work as a dental assistant.
the close link between teacher and student
art intended for mass consumption (=to be bought, seen etc by lots of people)
The phone rang, but she ignored it.
The lake has more than 20 varieties of fish.
We regret to inform you that your application has been rejected.
He died after suffering a severe asthma attack.
What remains of his original art collection is now in the city museum.
We need a leader with vision and strong principles.
These children work 70 metres below ground in appalling conditions.
He had to retire with a neck injury in the second half.
plans to partition the republic along ethnic lines (=in a way that keeps different ethnic groups apart)
I nearly fell in my anxiety to get downstairs quickly.
When the children had settled, Miss Brown gave out the new reading books.
apply the brakes
I don’t understand your filing system.
Moodie has been awarded a golf scholarship at the University of Hawaii.
She gazed at him in blank astonishment.
a slip of paper
I’m just figuring my expenses.
These relationships assume great importance in times of crisis.
It’s all ancient history and I’m not upset anymore.
The house has now been split up into individual flats.
the company’s annual financial statements
a new tax on domestic fuel
I couldn’t take the risk of leaving him alone even for a short time.
We will continue to run the company as a going concern (=a business that is financially successful).
Frank’s death has left a big gap in my life.
The match was lacking in atmosphere.
the public water supply
demanding financial targets
the provision of education and welfare services
the most likely cause of the problem
She is not happy with the decision and plans to appeal.
By this age, the child becomes relatively independent of his mother.
He has demonstrated an ability to meet deadlines.
This latest incident is guaranteed to make the situation worse.
Humans can easily identify with the emotional expressions of chimpanzees.
The Maldives pressed its claim to hold the summit.
Local schools have joined forces with each other to share facilities.
Aspen, a ski resort in Colorado
flowers that vary in color and size
It just fell apart in my hands!
The room had seating capacity for about 80.
The vast majority of books on the subject are complete rubbish.
US policy towards China
Business is one of the major forces in modern culture.
Our research has only recently begun to yield important results.
ethnic music
She breathed deeply to settle her nerves (=stop herself from feeling worried or frightened).
I’m not particularly impressed with their performance.
the competing claims of parents and teachers
The ability to adapt is a definite asset in this job.
The statement argues a change of attitude by the management.
We waited until the enemy was within range.
an application for a grant
This dish is good for dinner parties because much of the preparation can be done ahead of time.
He’s a very private man.
The school will be making a video of the play.
All personal belongings are left at the owner’s risk.
The theory assumes that both labour and capital are mobile.
Finally, Karpov cracked under the pressure.
London employers were suffering from a desperate shortage of school-leavers.
Dave didn’t respond to any of her emails.
I forced down a piece of stale bread.
A general ranks a captain.
The test results came back positive.
I tried to stay calm and just ignore him.
We went outside to see what was happening.
With respect, I think you’re wrong.
The neck becomes swollen and painful to the touch (=hurts when you touch it).
Police had set a trap for hooligans at the match.
The journey normally takes about two hours.
What’s the score?
a relatively minor error
Tears blurred her vision (=made it difficult for her to see).
The Internet allows people from all over the world to link up for chat sessions.
I’m taking one big trip this summer, but outside of that I’ll be around.
the trading of stocks and shares
tests of varying levels of difficulty
It took the builders three weeks to lay the foundations.
a management consultant
Have you got my mobile number?
a plan to flood the country with forged banknotes
Our agent in Rio deals with all our Brazilian business.
The team’s a shadow of its former self.
a man whose kindness and sincerity really restored my faith in human nature (=helped me to believe that people can be good)
a credit card fraud ring that stole millions of dollars from unsuspecting victims
They replaced the permanent staff with part-timers.
What interests me is all the history of these places.
Catherine wasn’t sure the book was the right one, but she bought it anyway.
The accounts for last year showed a profit of $2 million.
real old-fashioned romantic love
Our survey reveals a disturbing lack of interest in teacher training.
Kim adopts a southern accent when speaking to family back home.
Flooding is likely in some coastal regions of the Northeast during the early part of the week.
I filled in the application form and sent it off.
The committee reflects the different political currents within the organization.
No one was hurt, and we all breathed a sigh of relief.
This idea probably won’t work, but let’s try it anyway.
The force of the blow nearly split his head open.
I objected to having to rewrite the article.
The priest who married us was really nice.
She just wanted to keep up appearances for the kids.
raw silk
On the negative side, it will cost a lot.
As a biologist, my main interest has been human genetics.
Industrial production has risen by 0.5% since November.
Which shape is the odd one out?
A number of factors have combined to create this difficult situation.
It is rare to find such an interesting group of people.
Los Angeles’ warm dry climate
You will be met on arrival at the airport and transferred to your hotel.
Police think the murders are linked.
There seems to be a crisis of confidence in the economy.
I’m living with my parents, but it’s only temporary.
Even if you complete your training, you aren’t guaranteed a job.
The girls constantly had to be reminded about their chores.
his temper and other character flaws (=bad qualities)
One witness to the accident said the driver appeared to be drunk.
Oil companies were heavily criticized when they made large profits during the oil crisis of the 1970s.
Last year 1.3 million workers took part in industrial disputes.
The injury will keep him out of action for a month.
the projected closure of the hospital
a young player with great potential
a thick slice of homemade bread
She suffers from a rare disease of the brain.
New evidence has confirmed the first witness’s story.
His voice lowered (=became quieter).
Streets in the town centre are wider than the average.
With so little money available, repairs must remain a low priority (=not important and not needing attention soon).
Iceland is getting wider at a rate of about 0.5 cm per year.
Doctors exercise considerable power and often come into conflict with politicians.
Andy assumed an air of indifference whenever her name was mentioned.
Public opinion was beginning to shift to the right (=become more right-wing).
The sting causes swelling at the point of contact.
Phillips openly admits to having an alcohol problem.
You can use an answerphone to screen your phone calls before you answer them.
His business was in danger of collapse.
firms that make false claims about their products
A nurse settled the old man into a chair.
We linked up with the ‘Daily Express’ to help run the campaign.
You’re in a good mood this morning!
shops in the town centre
The tasks will be clearly defined by the tutor.
the global economy
This kind of thing happens all the time.
Wilson charged the drinks to his room.
Chenier and the band are performing at the Silver Palace tomorrow.
The only bright spot of the evening was when the food arrived.
Sales this month have reached a new peak.
tough, durable plastic
I’d better measure up before I start laying the carpet.
We remained friends.
The Green vote looks likely to increase again.
The curriculum makes great demands on the teacher.
I was impressed by the ease with which the information could be retrieved.
You need to develop a positive mental attitude.
medical benefits
Jenny was late, as per usual.
a presidential candidate
Britain could grant Spain’s request.
Workers want greater job security (=not being in danger of losing their jobs).
I met a number of sportsmen who had achieved a measure of success (=some success).
Medically, we will derive great benefit from this technique.
a very individual way of dressing
Most people have been very positive about the show.
the unions’ influence over local politics
We wish to acknowledge the support of the university.
Surgeons performed an emergency operation.
Where’s my gym kit?
UN troops intervened to avert a threat of violent conflict.
the possibility of an enemy attack
It takes strength of character to admit you are wrong.
Schools were created to teach reading and mathematics, not moral character.
Why do they want to build a house on this particular spot?
She suffers with pain in her lower back.
the protection of the environment
I recommend this book to anyone with an interest in chemistry.
She’s in London to promote her new book.
a painful blow on the head
Church and community leaders have appealed for calm.
The band will be in debt to the record company for years.
an actor of extraordinary range and intensity
Several residents claim to have witnessed the attack.
The doctor said it was just the flu. What a relief!
a site for a new airport
a human being
He’s never had anything approaching a normal life.
He represents the Congressional District of Illinois.
She threatened to take the magazine to court (=take legal action against them) if they didn’t publish an immediate apology.
The UN is sending peace monitors to the area.
Animals depend on plant material for food.
the heat from a small electric fire
the amateur dramatic society
John seems to have an inexhaustible stock of funny stories.
Hotel rooms are difficult to find at the peak of the holiday season.
a strange-looking individual
He revealed that he had been in prison twice before.
a musical score
Francis, having concluded his business with James, left for Miami.
The flu epidemic has put a huge strain on the health service.
tolerance of alternative lifestyles
A City lawyer has been hired to handle the case.
a heart specialist
Masses of books covered every surface in the room.
Baker argued against cutting the military budget.
Will they go ahead with their plans, even at the risk of offending the Americans?
The money was raised largely through the efforts of parents.
problems associated with cancer treatment
Don’t let a chance like that slip through your fingers!
raw meat
The government’s major concern is with preventing road accidents.
He stopped to change a flat.
a course in food service and food preparation
a highly desirable neighborhood
The peace process was on the brink of disaster.
I was always the odd one out at school.
They knew it wasn’t a good time to sell their house, but they still put it on the market (=offered it for sale).
the transfer of power to a civilian government
As women increasingly went out to work, the possibility of a conflict of loyalties became stronger.
I don’t know how you all manage to survive on Jeremy’s salary.
Pupils visited some of the websites featured in the article.
Cooking times may vary slightly, depending on your oven.
Bad health forced him into taking early retirement.
There are 30,000 troops in the area, all straining at the leash.
Only 12 of the 140 passengers survived.
The design proved to be a success.
The study indicates a connection between poverty and crime.
Human rights groups have called for an independent inquiry into the killings.
the charge that tobacco companies target young people with their ads
Employees complained bitterly about working conditions.
The charges of fraud relate to events that took place over ten years ago.
Help yourself to whatever you want.
The course gives students a solid foundation in the basics of computing.
the giants of myth and fairytale
We should promote environmentally aware and responsible science.
Once she stumbled, but somehow she recovered her balance and carried on running.
a column of marching men
Most of us have suffered the consequences of stupid decisions taken by others.
One of the victims was in a critical condition after suffering severe burns.
an anti-aircraft battery
Anita is collecting material for a novel.
I owe a debt of gratitude to my tutors.
city workers who want to get back to nature in their holidays
They’ve installed the new computer network at last.
officers below the rank of Colonel
He had an IQ score of 120.
The beer industry had absorbed a doubling of federal tax in 1991.
You can claim on the insurance if you have an accident while on holiday.
Foreign trade is of critical importance to the economy.
Most houseplants require regular watering.
I have complete confidence in Mr Wright’s analysis of the situation.
After the operation her condition was described as comfortable.
He was granted an audience with the Pope.
Scientists traditionally divide the oceans into zones.
This is just splitting hairs.
the senior Democrat on the House committee
He has been criticized for incompetence.
We use a sliding scale (=in which prices are not firmly fixed) for charges.
men who have been found guilty of violent crimes
the leader of the local black community
measures aimed at restoring public confidence in the education system
I have decided to recommend you for the directorship.
The activities of the far right have been a cause for concern for a while now.
Her work has improved beyond measure.
He suffered a massive stroke.
Bread forms the basis of their daily diet.
a project to develop a substitute for oil
Fearing further attacks, most of the population had abandoned the city.
Staff will hold a series of meetings over the next few weeks.
The shareholders demanded a change in management.
I’m afraid I might expose my real feelings for him.
Neighbours raised the alarm when they smelled smoke.
I’d like to welcome a new member of staff.
Students should be able to approach teachers for advice.
Details of the course can be found on our website.
I heard a loud crash.
Bill choked and gasped, straining for air.
He’s never been apart from his mother.
They offered him the position of editor-in-chief.
Just keep your trap shut.
a clerical assistant
Despite his advanced age, he often travelled abroad.
He examined the nature of the relationship between the two communities.
the deprived sections of the urban population
His ideas are coming back into fashion (=they are becoming popular again).
Railway stations are prime targets (=very likely targets) for bombs.
Life seemed to have lost its meaning since Janet’s death.
Some children are never exposed to classical music.
the potential of the Internet to create jobs
a formal agreement between the countries
Bennett accepted the award with typical modesty.
The peace talks are being held against a background of increasing violence.
Career prospects within the company are excellent.
The Retro Theatre is featuring films by Frank Capra this week.
To protect the food supply, the government ordered the slaughter of affected cattle.
For elderly people, TV is a vital link with the outside world.
It’s settled then. I’ll go back to the States in June.
She refused to answer questions about her personal finances.
The flowers emerge in the spring.
The penalty for a first offense is a fine.
You shouldn’t judge by appearances.
Then he turned the handle and went in.
It is no accident that men fill most of the top jobs in nursing, while women remain on the lower grades.
a road construction project
He won’t go to sleep unless you tell him a story.
Light flooded into the kitchen.
Their farm has been reduced to half its former size.
The drop in consumer spending reflects concern about the economy.
We went to Paris by coach.
We’re doing a project on pollution.
Why doesn’t she get a divorce?
the needs of the individual customer
the official opening of the new theatre
As a stepmother, don’t even try to compete with the children’s mother for their love.
The identity of the killer is still unknown.
How can he fit everything into his busy schedule?
The changes in tax rates will benefit single people the most.
Divorce is an agony of divided loyalties for children.
The film festival is acknowledged as an event of international importance.
Sally was adopted when she was four.
a group of highly intelligent (=very intelligent) students
a sexual partner
college kids
Security cameras have been installed in the city centre.
There’s a strain of madness in his family.
the release of toxic waste into the rivers
At least Marc managed to put in an appearance at the party.
The noise monitor recorded 98 decibels.
The police took fingerprints and identified the body.
In the background, I could hear the sound of traffic.
According to my understanding of the letter, it means something quite different.
It’s against my principles to accept gifts from clients.
different strains of wheat
She looked up in alarm.
Silence and secrecy surround the murder.
Water and salts are absorbed into our bloodstream.
a range of options for cutting costs
Now please concentrate.
Your homework is to write a two-page theme on pollution.
Mum is very stubborn, and Kim takes after her in that respect.
the Kennedy Administration
writing paper with a black border
a schedule of postal charges
The police compared the suspect’s fingerprints with those found at the crime scene.
The bridge was erected as a temporary measure.
Being your own boss is one of the attractions of owning your own business.
That wasn’t very adult of you.
the rise of concern about the environment
Somehow she’d given them the slip.
He had the clearest image in his mind of his mother and father.
Where’s all the camping stuff?
Oil was released into the sea.
The winter heat wave in California is a stark contrast to the below-freezing temperatures on the East Coast.
Exam results are not necessarily a true measure of a student’s abilities.
powerful natural forces such as earthquakes, floods, and drought
an annual rent of £8,000
Manchester United are still in the top spot after today’s win.
The results support our original theory.
This territory was settled in the mid-1850s by German immigrants.
Afro-Americans account for 12% of the US population.
There were 120 students whose ages ranged from 10 to 18.
Courts can refuse to admit evidence obtained illegally by police.
the conference’s failure to reach an agreement
Employers hire skilled people on fixed-term contracts.
The book’s theme is the conflict between love and duty.
threats made against his wife and children
He became a monk after seeing Saint Apollinaris in a vision.
She spoke in a tone of voice she usually reserved for dealing with officials.
The story wouldn’t have fooled anyone with a grain of sense.
Our society has divorced itself from religion.
his feelings of anxiety
The president said he was fine after his collapse yesterday.
OK, let’s split the difference, and I’ll give you £20.
It is dangerous to exceed the recommended dose.
I think on balance I prefer the old system.
We are taking a global view of our business.
Murrow’s evidence was enough to convict Hayes of murder.
Wallace denied charges that he had lied to investigators.
Philip Glass created a new kind of music.
Yes, I’ll be there. Thanks for reminding me.
I don’t think he’s capable of murder.
The wrong man was arrested in error.
cleaning products that are for industrial use only (=not to be used at home)
The percentage of school leavers that go to university is about five per cent.
I was in no mood for a joke.
There was no point arguing the toss after the goal had been disallowed.
a new preparation for cleansing the skin
The car’s design has been greatly improved.
Somehow Debbie maintained an inner reserve of strength.
In 1918 British women got the right to vote.
a writer of children’s stories
He had a clear vision of how he hoped the company would develop.
He managed to get himself a job on a building site.
Shoes with high heels put a great deal of stress on knees and ankles.
One of the boxes had split open.
the traditional arrangement of desks in rows
How can anyone say with confidence that the recession is over?
the downward trend in the price of gold
The government will have to borrow vast amounts of money.
Then, with a final effort, our men charged the enemy for the last time.
Sleeping tablets are not recommended in this case.
In the story, the main character has left his girlfriend and baby.
the castle’s massive walls
He acknowledges that when he’s tired he gets bad-tempered.
I don’t associate him with energetic sports.
In our culture, it is rude to ask someone how much they earn.
A Persian rug will add colour and interest to your hallway.
The film is rated R for language and adult themes.
Slowing the arms race relieved pressure on the Soviet economic system.
the San Diego Water Authority
one of football’s most notorious tough guys
It’s just a phase he’s going through.
The symptoms did not differ between the two groups.
Community leaders met to discuss the proposed golf course.
a luggage label
new scientific discoveries that are stretching the borders of knowledge
He’ll give you something to ease the pain.
What’s happened to your coat? It’s all ripped.
The furniture was thick with dust (=there was thick dust on the furniture).
Buying a house had taken all their savings.
The nation’s fuel supplies will not last forever.
He swore, which was out of character for him.
He was released on bail on condition that he did not go within half a mile of his mother’s address.
Children get more individual attention in small classes.
Moe reflected that he had never seen Sherry so happy.
The houses were partly timber in construction.
After the defeat General Meyer was relieved of his command.
the powerful headlights
the puzzle of how the sun works
We watched the waves crashing against the rocks.
The decision has been strongly criticized by teachers.
The group split away from the Green Party and formed the Environmental Alliance.
They’ve changed the appearance of the whole building.
private education
No littering. Penalty $500.
Sam rudely ignored the question.
massive increases in the number of homeless
Who do you suspect?
The fighting is a major threat to stability in the region.
This time the display flashed a red warning signal.
The company has sustained heavy financial losses this year.
This book takes an unorthodox approach to art criticism.
At this rate we won’t ever be able to afford a holiday.
He’s been given six months to live if he doesn’t quit drinking.
I’ve opened an account with Barclay’s Bank.
You can make a payment in any bank.
All my paintings are ultimately about the human condition.
Thanks for the loan of your camera.
Who wrote the score for the movie?
In this instance I think she was mistaken.
British farmers, particularly those producing lamb, are very worried.
Our primary concern is to provide the refugees with food and health care.
There is considerable anxiety among staff about job losses.
The latest unemployment figures will be published tomorrow.
He’d already begun to establish quite a reputation as a journalist.
Abortion is a highly controversial issue.
The problem has been ignored by successive administrations.
Adrian was finding it difficult to concentrate.
The fact that he’s breathing on his own again is a positive sign.
Lagoon Reef is one of the best resort hotels.
Beyond the river, cattle were grazing.
a nesting site for birds
After the war, the city declined in importance.
Her experience as a refugee informs the content of her latest novel.
Children need physical contact with a caring adult.
The roads were thick with holiday traffic.
That summer I left school and joined the ranks of (=became one of) the unemployed.
My wife supported me enormously.
Is anybody keeping score (=making a record of the score)?
a modest increase in costs
The houses down by the river flood quite regularly.
The current trend is towards more part-time employment.
She swept her thick hair aside.
the college administration
The company had failed to provide a safe environment for its workers.
the intellectual challenge of postgraduate research
A single to Oxford, please.
There’s always a possibility that he might go back to Seattle.
He split from his wife last year.
The morning sun flooded the room with a gentle light.
Have you locked your vehicle?
I’ve voted Democrat all my life.
The clerical part of his job was tedious, and he was glad to be rid of it.
a method of distinguishing cancer cells from normal tissue
The restaurant is particularly popular with young people.
Coal forms by a slow process of chemical change.
In principle, the new software should make the accounting system a lot simpler.
He’s helping other people with spinal injuries to lead an independent life.
Polly decided to force the issue by demanding an explanation.
the royal courts of Europe
A wide base will make the structure much more stable.
Max says he’s ill, but I’m sure it’s psychological.
Successful two-career couples are still the exception, not the rule (=used to emphasize that something is unusual).
The report failed to mention that most of the landowners do not live on their properties.
That photo makes me look ancient!
carrot juice
I guess it was his eyes that attracted me first.
We can’t let these boys become just another statistic.
vast areas of rainforest
They threw down the challenge that he couldn’t wash 40 cars in one hour (=invited him to try to do it).
I tried to pump him for information about their other contacts.
Our goal is to create the conditions for a lasting peace.
the mental processes involved in decision-making
A fierce debate raged over which artist’s work should be chosen for the prize.
A fairly narrow range of people are responsible for key decisions.
Mary resolved that she would stop smoking.
The system crashed and I lost three hours’ worth of work.
He eased his way through the crowd.
an arson attack (=an attempt to destroy a building using fire)
The children were arguing over which TV programme to watch.
A Nobel Prize was awarded to Waksman in 1952.
Soldiers were guarding the approaches to the city.
a summer lecture series
Woodson received a penalty.
The White House hopes to shift the media’s attention away from foreign policy issues.
The police trapped the terrorists at a roadblock.
He is opposed by two other candidates.
Tucson’s alternative radio station
My instructions are (=I have been told) to give the package to him personally.
Use the cursor to highlight the name of the document you want to print.
The type of car you drive makes a statement about you.
the Grand Duke of Baden
The successful applicant will have experience in project management.
Army tanks attacked a village near the capital on Sunday.
Italian food has been exported all over the world.
The application of fertilizer increased the size of the plants.
a costly legal dispute
The addition of networking facilities will greatly enhance the system.
Shopping at the markets turned out to be quite a performance.
The riots were suppressed by government forces.
Women commit fewer crimes than men.
Make sure you carry out the doctor’s instructions.
a climate of growing racial intolerance in large cities
The search provided the police with several vital clues.
Funds are available to assist teachers who want to attend the conference.
The official opening of the institute was in May.
schools in the independent sector
Unfortunately his domestic life wasn’t very happy.
His face had a deadly paleness.
the switch from agriculture to dairy production
The course aims to help children learn through video.
She needed a stunning dress to help her make a dramatic entrance.
a literal translation from Arabic
She looked round the room with a critical eye.
It’s made me much more sensitive to the needs of the disabled.
tissue cultures
He felt a curious mixture of excitement and panic.
Canals were used for the transport of goods.
A normal working week is 40 hours.
Norma tried to preserve a normal family life in difficult circumstances.
A significant number of drivers fail to keep to speed limits.
a dress pattern
letters written in a formal register
I’ve always thought very highly of Michael.
Younger workers tend to be at an advantage (=have an advantage) when applying for jobs.
Several advertising agencies are competing to get the contract.
I called a taxi from the rank outside.
He is still in a critical condition in hospital.
They’d like to see their daughter settle down, get married, and have kids.
decisions based on scientific evidence
The study raises the possibility that dieting is bad for your health.
Joyce argued me into buying a new jacket.
logistical support
He was a little boy, but he behaved as if he was an adult.
It was obvious that Gina was lying.
the major developments in computer technology
Jim Paton will assume the role of managing director.
a beautiful campus in New England
sexually active teenagers
The war is strongly supported by the mass of the population.
The bill failed to get the required number of votes.
She cheated her aged aunt out of her fortune.
a nice quiet spot on the beach
My mother had never expressed any interest in the garden.
Ann suffered from depression and a number of other emotional problems.
Armed police surrounded a house in the High Street.
The enzyme is derived from human blood.
He must be mental!
measures to stimulate economic growth
Readers vote with their wallets every day when they choose a newspaper.
She seems more like her former self.
a conference centre
Williams invested a large sum of money in Swiss stocks.
As a group, females performed better on the test than males.
This is a fact that most smokers readily acknowledge.
The new law has been widely criticized.
the Grand Old Man of British theatre
Was the employment of force justified?
an account that pays higher interest
Tom said he’d switch with me on Saturday.
a lawyer specializing in conflict resolution
He underwent major heart surgery recently.
She has tried different diets with varying degrees of success.
I’ve got a conflict on Friday. Can we make it Monday?
Preparations are being made for the president’s visit.
The attack has led to strains in the relationship between the two countries.
a small raised platform at one end of the room
They made claims they couldn’t live up to.
The burglar alarm was switched off.
How can she afford to eat out every night?
a physical explanation for this phenomenon
The author included a new chapter of background material for the second edition of the book.
management training courses
She hardly dared to understand the meaning behind his statement.
chocolates with soft centres
This gives the company a competitive advantage over its rivals.
The children have never been apart before.
the slopes where I hunted deer as a kid
He raised his binoculars and adjusted the focus.
Elsie acquired a good knowledge of Chinese.
the British Golf Union
He switches between TV and theatre work.
He has not yet committed to any of the candidates.
suburban houses that lack character
He admitted that, with the benefit of hindsight, the original launch had not been large enough.
We posed for photographs.
Marx points out the potential conflicts below the surface of society.
You’re listening to the American Armed Forces Network.
Steve’s parents split up when he was four.
I told him flat that I didn’t want to see him again.
Manning hoped to acquire valuable works of art as cheaply as possible.
George extended his hand (=offered to shake hands).
I’m under constant pressure at work.
The branch split under their weight.
Further action may be necessary if the leaders do not yield to diplomatic pressure.
I relish the challenge of rebuilding the club.
Drivers are advised to take extra care.
Meat from the infected animals is regarded as a serious health risk (=something likely to harm people’s health).
The manager insisted he doesn’t play favorites.
The drug is effective against a range of bacteria.
She read the letter and gave us a rough translation (=she did not translate everything exactly).
Small businesses are finding it hard to survive in the present economic climate.
artificial barriers of gender and race
Every government department has its own particular culture.
She demanded payment in advance.
The government has agreed to buy 20 planes, with an option on a further 10.
Most analysts are forecasting a further downturn in the market.
What does it cost to hire a boat for a week?
Before release, the sea lions are fitted with electronic tracking devices.
expensive luxuries that are beyond the reach of ordinary people
There is no evidence for these claims.
We’d like to extend a warm welcome to our French visitors.
If you want a slice of the action, tickets may still be available.
I knew he had done it, but there was no way I could prove it to Eddie.
He possessed no academic qualifications.
We love reading your letters and we try to publish as many as possible.
Greene admitted causing death by reckless driving.
There are very few openings in scientific research.
a religious sect that emerged in the 1830s
Most people retire at 65.
the devastating effects of economic depression
Heath will play alongside Smith in attack.
Elsa took me into her confidence and told me about some of the problems she was facing.
He was too far away to be able to identify faces.
a very sensitive child
Please hold the line. I’m trying to connect you.
The party has no intention of relaxing its hold on the country.
She carried on as if nothing had happened.
I don’t have enough credits to graduate.
a new and vibrant initiative to meet the challenge of the 21st century
The essential point of relay racing is that it is a team effort.
As if by magic, the waiter suddenly appeared with a tray of drinks.
conventional forces
I would like you to respect my privacy.
Sun lotions screen out damaging ultraviolet light.
There must be an error in our calculations.
There was widespread support for the war.
the former Soviet Union
She turned the camera and focussed on Martin’s face.
Reiss used his Brooklyn home as security for the loan.
She abandoned herself to grief.
He asked if we could switch shifts.
Advertising may be used to score points off the competition.
propaganda pumped out by the food industry
People in higher social classes are more likely to marry late (=when they are older than is usual).
protection money
a moment of comic relief
the transportation of dangerous chemicals by road
She slipped out of her clothes and stepped into the shower.
The reality is that young people will not go into teaching until salaries are higher.
Each person’s fingerprints are unique.
His vocal range is amazing.
He became politically active at college.
the theme song from ‘The Brady Bunch’
Music pumped out from the loudspeakers.
We camped a few miles outside the town.
Scott’s equipment was damaged beyond repair.
a battery of medical tests
according to the official version of events
Many women earn less than their male colleagues.
Membership qualifies you for a discount on purchases.
How much vacation do you get at your new job?
My agent has a new script for me to look at.
typical British weather
He was sentenced to prison and stripped of his rank (=had his rank taken from him).
a charge of racial discrimination against the company
Debt collection is a huge growth industry.
The time is fast approaching when we will have to make a decision.
You’ll be transferred to the Birmingham office.
A pained (=worried) expression crossed her face.
My parents had trouble adjusting to living in an apartment.
It could be five years before the drug is generally available.
As far as I am aware, they are a happily married couple.
The memorial service was conducted by the Rev. David Prior.
Eye-witness accounts told of the unprovoked shooting of civilians.
There seem to be so many rules and regulations these days.
She told me every detail of her trip.
Candidates are not allowed to use a calculator in this exam.
I can truly say I’ve never enjoyed myself so much.
Ralph received the full measure of his mother’s devotion.
Oliver made a fortune by investing in antique furniture.
His act contains a lot of new material.
Older people tend to be very sensitive to cold.
The outside of the house was painted white.
The council have granted him permission to build on the site.
This layer of brain tissue is no thicker than 2 mm.
Apply the cream evenly over the skin.
It’s easy to become attached to the children you work with.
So describe this new boyfriend to me!
drastic measures to reduce traffic problems
an airline pilot
presentation and clarity of statement
an emotional response to the problem
He had begun to slip into debt.
I’ve only read ‘Madame Bovary’ in translation (=not in its original language).
The bed can be folded flat for storage.
The virus is active even at low temperatures.
I’ve strained a muscle in my leg.
the band’s latest release
I thought she’d split up with her boyfriend.
What she did was unforgivable, but the odd thing was he didn’t seem to mind.
a pillow stuffed with feathers
There were a couple of short cartoons before the main feature.
Personal safety is of primary importance.
There is a significant difference between the number of home births now and ten years ago.
It is no longer economic to run the service.
You may just have to pull rank and tell them.
Cinemas declined with the growth of television.
A brick crashed through the window.
It was important to dispel the myth that AIDS was a gay disease.
The children were allowed to do whatever they liked.
She has two children from a previous marriage.
He brushed aside criticisms of his performance.
The old-fashioned expression ‘in the family way’ means ‘pregnant’.
The plates went crashing to the ground.
The doctor was found guilty of criminal negligence (=not taking enough care to protect people you are responsible for).
There was a plentiful supply of cheap labour.
He had represented himself as an employee in order to gain access to the files.
If running outside doesn’t appeal, try jogging on the spot indoors.
He was a dynamic personality in the business world.
Sometimes the only way to break the cycle of violence in the home is for the wife to leave.
Joking apart, they did do quite a good job for us.
the Chinese character for ‘horse’
Martins now faces the biggest challenge of his career.
People need to get out of their cars and use other modes of transportation.
Qualified staff are leaving and standards are declining.
Asylum seekers were entering Britain at a rate of 1,600 per day.
Helen lowered her voice (=made it quieter) as they approached.
individuals who had ranged themselves against the authorities
Experts cannot agree on the causes of criminal behaviour.
The defence pursued the question of Dr Carrington’s state of mind.
my daily exercise routine
The only way to catch mice is to set a trap.
An atmosphere of optimism dominated the conference.
We need to assess the impact on climate change.
The company is in the process of moving to new offices.
An important feature of Van Gogh’s paintings is their bright colours.
It was Harold’s desire that he should be buried next to his wife.
He was recently appointed chief economist at the Bank of Scotland.
She had the option of staying for an extra year.
baking soda
It was worth the trouble, I figured.
Most are recruited from the ranks of people who studied Latin and Greek at university.
He’s suspected of murder.
We launched the share issue on March 1.
primitive cultures
The new law will afford protection to employees.
These are the report’s main conclusions.
The two systems differ in many respects.
an independent panel of scientists
To anyone on the outside, our marriage seemed perfect.
The stereo is guaranteed against failure for a year.
as we said in the previous chapter
I’m just going to stretch out on the couch for ten minutes.
Have you signed the hotel register?
We were well and truly beaten.
the senior partner in a law firm
Darwin’s theory rocked the scientific establishment to its foundations.
Can you figure out how to do it?
After the climb we were absolutely knackered, if you’ll pardon the expression.
He insisted I should take a taxi.
Our main focus is on helping people get back into work.
The hotel is currently under construction.
The sauce is quite sweet, so add dried thyme as a contrast.
Learning poetry is a good discipline for the memory.
a table of weights and measures
You have to pay extra for a single room.
members of the teaching profession
Manchester United extended their lead at the top of the table to 10 points.
It’s curious that she left without saying goodbye.
a man of previous good character
I was angry and embarrassed in equal measure.
Craft and cunning were necessary for the scheme to work.
a white silk slip
The research involves collecting data from two random samples.
the amount that a family needs each week just to survive
an adult lion
The government has announced a package of measures to assist affected areas.
Statistics show that 50% of new businesses fail in their first year.
The sisters brought a libel action against the newspaper (=started a court case).
While there are similarities in the two cultures, there are also great contrasts.
It does no harm to ask.
Their claim had no basis in fact (=it was not true).
This point links in with our earlier discussion.
a positive charge
She was employed on a temporary basis.
The tax changes will concern large corporations rather than small businesses.
Businesses may only hire foreign workers where an American cannot be found.
They were arguing about how to spend the money.
the Los Angeles city council
The play portrays a good marriage torn apart by external forces.
Car sales have declined by a quarter.
Campbell’s broken leg will probably require surgery.
The government must take action (=do something) now to stop the rise in violent crime.
a benefit concert for famine relief
The meat is done when the thickest part turns from pink to white.
a crossword puzzle
We’re acting as agents for Mr Watson.
His father was a remote, quiet man.
Police are still busy hunting for clues at the scene of the crime (=where the crime happened).
It takes two to three weeks to grow the culture.
an interview with the president
The hours slipped past almost unnoticed.
It’s possible to store a lot more data on a DVD.
He has your best interests at heart, you know.
They were so poor they had to hire themselves out on the farms.
They found themselves competing with foreign companies for a share of the market.
recycled material
stiff painful joints
Neighbours complained to the police about the dogs barking.
The rise in temperature is not statistically significant.
Brown areas represent deserts on the map.
Double-click on an icon to launch an application.
In this chapter I will attempt to explain what led up to the revolution.
He did not associate himself with the pro-democracy movement.
Parenting is about giving your child security and love.
Discuss your worries with your partner.
The negotiations will be a severe test of his abilities.
The stores have to compete for customers in the Christmas season.
He had a natural ease which made him very popular.
The hotel charges $125 a night.
This advertisement is a typical example of their marketing strategy.
formal recognition of the reformed church
The video will provide a basis for class discussion.
Many believe that poverty is a direct consequence of overpopulation.
He is survived by his wife Sue.
The Senate resolved to accept the president’s proposals.
families on benefit
The prison was ordered to tighten security after a prisoner escaped yesterday.
She suffered a collapse under anaesthetic.
a natural ability with figures
The girls claim to have seen the fairies.
The coastguard picked up a distress signal from a freighter 50 miles out at sea.
One way to see birds at close range is to attract them into your own garden.
Her breathing had eased.
What are they demonstrating against?
If you are unable to attend the interview, for whatever reason, you should inform us immediately.
an exclusive interview (=one that is given to only one newspaper, programme etc)
Due to the high cost of borrowing, many companies have been forced to close.
She had complete confidence in the doctors.
I don’t know the precise meaning of the word ‘gleaned’.
A phone line to help children in trouble has been closed due to lack of cash.
What’s the best route to Cambridge?
The net result of all these changes is that schools should be able to deliver a better service to pupils.
I’ve supported Liverpool all my life.
The judge put an entirely different construction on his remarks.
The pressures of work can make you ill.
It took raw courage to admit she was wrong.
She was 2 minutes faster than her nearest rival.
I ducked down to get out of range of the gunshots.
The incident threatened to put the peace process into reverse.
He was incapable of sustaining close relationships with women.
The hotel is right in the centre of the village.
Sadly, she inherited none of her father’s musical talent.
the gap between the two rows of seats
The children are finding it hard to adapt to the new school.
attempts to solve a mathematical equation
I’m perfectly capable of looking after myself, thank you!
Computers can handle huge amounts of data.
I’m here for one term, on an exchange with Dr. Fisher.
Nothing’s settled yet.
He lowered himself carefully down from the top of the wall.
They were kept in appalling physical conditions.
She had told me her name before, but I guess it didn’t register.
Bob reversed into a parking space.
He did not fully appreciate the significance of signing the contract.
The company must be able to compete in the international marketplace.
the European Centre for Nuclear Research
Local authorities have to cope with the problems of homelessness.
One member of the audience described the opera as ‘boring’.
Ross shows unusual perception for a boy of his age.
The men who work on the oil rigs are a tough bunch.
The sentence was reduced to three years on appeal.
I’d rather have my own house than rent.
We are trying to attract managers who know the score.
Preparations for the upcoming Olympic Games are nearing completion.
All the hotels were filled to capacity.
I’d been standing there for several minutes before he registered my presence.
This mixture will resolve into two separate compounds.
an expression of surprise
After qualifying, doctors spend at least two years working in hospitals.
Our money was running out at an alarming rate.
He was used to being in charge, not being the victim of circumstance.
Let us assume for a moment that we could indeed fire her. Should we?
You must bring your insurance card with you when you register with a dentist or doctor.
Is your arm very painful?
We won’t charge for delivery if you pay now.
The government is monitoring the situation closely.
a tough area of Chicago
Police believe that the same man is responsible for three other murders in the area.
The spelling of this word is an interesting exception to the rule.
In cold conditions you’ll need a sleeping bag with a hood.
The lawyer told the judge that Kennedy had no previous convictions.
The country now faces an economic crisis.
I felt I hadn’t been treated fairly.
The restaurant pays cash on delivery for fish, which the local fishermen like.
the link between drug use and crime
The plane crashed into a mountain.
The management has agreed to the policy.
Cats should always have access to fresh, clean water.
artificial flowers
There were several pairs of riding boots ranked neatly in the hall.
Buddy’s huge gut strained against the buttons on his shirt.
Opinion polls show that voters have lost confidence in the administration.
The store’s policy is not to allow returns or exchanges.
Plans for the new school are now in preparation.
an approach road
He had fine delicate features.
I’d appreciate it if you let me get on with my job.
There are plans to split the corporation into a number of smaller independent companies.
Farmers have appealed to the government for help.
The result of the poll won’t be known until around midnight.
Mr Howarth gave us very specific instructions.
Water expands as it freezes.
The boats are being left to drift; it’s an accident waiting to happen.
The children perform two plays each school year.
How many runners will be competing in the marathon?
toys suitable for children in the pre-school age range
Could you confirm the dates we discussed?
The principles of democracy are sometimes in conflict with political reality.
Parking is readily available near the station entrance.
a strong capable woman
It’s too far to walk, not to mention the fact that it’ll probably be closed by now anyway.
He was recognized for having saved many lives.
Illegal workers are often cheated by employers.
It’s tough being married to a cop.
He lived most of his adult life in Scotland.
I got a note from Moira urging me to get in touch.
These four posts take the strain of the whole structure.
a loan of £60,000
We try to celebrate the achievements of our students.
The drug blocks the action of the cancer gene.
a benefit concert for famine relief
The school’s eighth-graders are above average in science.
Let’s stay at home and watch a video.
I had a bad attack of flu at Christmas.
I felt I was doing well and my confidence began to grow.
The cuts in funding will be a disaster for the schools.
He is also a diplomat, but senior to me.
Two of the firefighters sustained serious injuries.
His work is truly original.
Most customers were satisfied with the way their complaints were handled.
I’ve been having a spot of bother (=some problems) with my car.
She ran her fingers through her thick brown hair.
She was staring at her computer monitor.
The writing is on the wall for old manufacturing industries.
He ranked high among the pioneers of 20th century chemical technology.
I’ve put a list of names up on the board.
It would usually cost $500, but I’m sure we can come to some kind of arrangement.
It seems reasonable to assume that the book was written around 70 AD.
Why don’t we go upstairs where it’s more private?
his chief rival for the job
At issue here is the extent to which exam results reflect a student’s ability.
the areas affected by the hurricane
I was upset by Eleanor’s remarks, but didn’t make an issue of it.
The car has been adapted to take unleaded gas.
Carrie slipped her arm through her brother’s.
Take your partners for the next dance.
I cannot guarantee to work for more than a year.
the series of events that led to the outbreak of war
The fuel tank has a capacity of 40 litres.
The rent was only $20 an hour.
You’ve got to be more positive about your work.
Lack of concentration was a real problem.
a primary teacher
Leftover food attracts flies.
changing patterns of behaviour among students
I seem to recall I’ve met him before somewhere.
The garage said they’d send me an estimate for the work.
a wildlife reserve
the Sonics’ six-foot-four-inch center
a stop signal
We don’t usually accept checks, but for you we’ll make an exception (=not include you in this rule).
the digestive process
There are a number of links between the two theories.
Amanda felt that marriage was a trap.
US video recorders cannot play European tapes, and the same applies in reverse.
the England cricket team’s tour of India
Robert aimed to be independent of his parents by the time he was twenty.
a capacity to think in an original way
They returned our hospitality in full measure.
He was charged with assault and battery.
She was attacked while walking home late at night.
Marion’s legs collapsed under her.
The two men were committed for trial at Bristol Crown Court.
US troops taking part in the peacekeeping mission
A version of the game for Mac computers will be released in February.
Demonstrators forced their way past.
The work she does is absolutely vital.
his third tour in Northern Ireland
One of the station staff spotted that I was in difficulty, and came to help.
He had time to reflect on his successes and failures.
The Democrats now face opposition from within their own ranks.
Four paintings stolen from the gallery have been recovered.
Computers have brought dramatic changes to the workplace.
I allow that there may have been a mistake.
Everyone who came into contact with Di felt better for knowing her.
Jack lent Sarah the money on the understanding that she would pay it back next month.
The robbery was captured on police video cameras.
The argument could lead to a damaging split in the party.
a story about alien beings who invade Earth
According to our intelligence, further attacks were planned.
Don’t be put off by his physical appearance.
During the war Harold had risen to the rank of major.
He had the full support of the general committee.
Many economists are critical of the government’s economic policies.
We can’t afford to wait any longer or we’ll miss the plane.
the design for the new sports centre
Is there any fish on the menu?
The course places emphasis on practical work.
a single-sex school (=one for only boys or girls)
the railway system
plastic food
Italy were the favourites to win the World Cup.
figures that are not for public consumption
The area is linked by a series of canals.
the dramatic scenery of the Grand Canyon
Several buildings in the town have survived from medieval times.
The company has come under fierce attack for its decision to close the factory.
Police are very careful when screening politicians’ bodyguards.
He spent years acquiring his skills as a surgeon.
Christina blushed and lowered her eyes.
We ought to find out the views of the people on the spot.
Strong currents can be very dangerous for swimmers.
a formal dinner
As the cars overtake you, they are temporarily outside your field of vision.
a teaching career
Don’t forget to indicate before you pull out.
You sing like a real professional.
It’s a book that will be of interest to a wide range of readers.
Management have agreed to extend the deadline.
a very adaptable creature that will eat different foods in different environments
A teacher must be able to communicate effectively to students.
a top-secret research facility
The kids have been stuffing themselves with candy.
Photosynthesis is a highly complex process.
Bill became aware that he was still holding his glass.
a diet to help you shed pounds
Puppies are naturally curious.
I happened to see James in town.
the slowdown in the Japanese economy
the body’s vital processes
It can be hard for even a trained doctor to spot the symptoms of lung cancer.
the rise in the divorce rate
a list of options
an old custom which has survived into the twenty-first century
new regulations on imports
medical benefits
knowledge and wisdom gained from experience rather than from formal education
Large firms benefit from economies of scale (=ways of saving money because they are big).
How does life in Britain compare with life in the States?
It might be obvious to you, but it isn’t to me.
Linguists currently have little understanding of the exact cause of language change.
He was a victim of circumstance.
The drought could spell disaster for wildlife.
The next event will be the 100 metres.
legislation to protect the environment
He could offer no likely explanation when I asked him.
Darwin’s scientific writings
The company is offering a free health screen to all employees.
Pregnant women should avoid certain foods such as raw eggs.
The management reserves the right to refuse admission.
instances where safety regulations have been breached
Townsend kicked a penalty (=in a rugby game) in the last minute.
In his speech he proposed that the UN should set up an emergency centre for the environment.
The paperless office may one day become a reality.
Making your new business successful requires luck, patience, and application.
Does the policy cover theft and fire?
Donations have been flooding in since we launched the appeal.
My drinking was starting to have a negative effect on my work.
the lower back region
His best magic trick is sawing a lady in half.
The prospect of marriage terrified Alice.
Her voice has a raw poetic beauty.
He doesn’t seem to be very good at crisis management.
Government troops have forced the rebels to surrender.
His shop was attacked by a gang of youths.
When the investigation is concluded, the results will be sent to the US Attorney’s office.
Managers have so far refused to confirm or deny reports that up to 200 jobs are to go.
The EU is taking a tough line with the UK over this issue.
Her drink problem has forced her to retire from public life.
the structure of the brain
I was relieved that we had averted yet another financial crisis.
I could see that she was beginning to crack under the strain.
Eileen works in accounts.
Dahl’s books are firm favourites with children.
He had total recall (=remembered everything) of every play in the game.
Often what is perceived to be aggression is simply fear.
Your children really do you credit.
It’s easy to change the text on screen before printing it.
The increasing racial diversity of the US is reflected in the latest census statistics.
Some rural schools have 50 pupils, while at the other end of the scale are city schools with nearly 5,000 pupils.
The bank agreed to extend the loan if certain conditions were met.
The issue of cloning has sharply divided voters.
Add up the numbers in each column.
a negative return on our investment (=a loss)
The business is located right in the center of town.
a pattern of dots
Scientists have identified the gene that causes abnormal growth.
We’d prefer to rent the house to a professional couple.
Air bags are a standard feature in most new cars.
I meant to buy some milk, but it completely slipped my mind.
grown men behaving like schoolboys
Don’t strain yourself.
Cantor didn’t mind if they worked late; in fact, he actively encouraged it.
All attempts to control inflation have failed.
Growing plants from seed can produce disappointing results.
a seat belt that allows the driver greater freedom of movement
Generally speaking, the more expensive the stereo, the better it is.
Excuse me, I have to use the facilities.
lines radiating out from the centre
People attach too much importance to economic forecasts.
Sleep disorders are a serious psychological problem.
I felt sorry for the ones who had to eat the awful stuff.
They are publishing the dictionary on CD-ROM.
He has clearly committed his government to continuing down the path of economic reform.
his attempts to project himself as a potential leader
They are threatening to take legal action against the hospital (=start a court case against them).
the London College of Fashion
instant soup
The plant projects its seeds over a wide area.
The human brain is an incredibly complicated organ.
Vigorous exercise increases oxygen consumption.
Davies’ style of writing has been compared to Dickens’.
The question of where we go on holiday is purely academic since we don’t have any money.
art galleries, museums and other places of interest
The case is being handled by a top lawyer.
games suitable for specific age groups
We liked both houses, but price was the deciding factor.
the effects of alcohol on human behaviour
He had a high fever and was covered in spots.
She projected the slide onto the wall.
Young drivers are far more likely to have accidents than older drivers.
By tradition, it’s the bride’s parents who pay for the wedding.
a survey of modern English literature
How do you think you’re going to fit all that stuff into the car?
This law provides protection for threatened animals and plants.
The earthquake shook the foundations of the house.
The whole character of the school has changed.
For a second, his hand was in contact with mine.
The insurance company cannot meet (=pay) such enormous claims.
She drove off at great speed, hit several parked cars, and finally crashed into a lamp-post.
She mentioned in passing (=mentioned in a quick unimportant way) that you had just been to Rome.
MGM made the film as a star vehicle for Brando.
the current debt crisis
Reflexology is based on the principle that specific areas on the feet correspond to different parts of the body.
The board had split in two.
the negative aspects of ageing
the official policy on education
The plan of the new building is displayed on a board at the back of the room.
Most churches were built with donations from private individuals (=ordinary people, rather than the government or companies).
He looked very grand in his ceremonial uniform.
This insurance plan offers your family financial security in the event of your death.
Primary health care teams are the first point of contact for users of the service.
the Environmental Protection Agency
Both parties experienced an identity crisis (=feeling of uncertainty about their purpose) at the end of the '90s.
Unless some extra money is found, the theatre will close.
the network of blood vessels in the body
Stevens became a Muslim and adopted the name Yusuf Islam.
He just switches off and ignores me.
Finally the letter of appointment came, making it all official.
My duties at the school extend beyond just teaching.
She was then approaching the end of her career.
his enthusiasm and breadth of vision
Children learn at different rates.
the lower slopes of the mountain
Surveys conducted in other countries reported similar findings.
What does the writing on the back say?
Liverpool crashed to their worst defeat of the season.
deliveries of food and supplies
I take the odd day off work.
This study concerns couples’ expectations of marriage.
I hate that plastic smile of hers.
Luxury villas for rent.
A third of accidental deaths occur in the home.
He’s a good soldier, but not really officer material.
Internet connections through conventional phone lines are fairly slow.
I thought that without me the whole project would collapse.
Millions of people live with the harsh realities of unemployment.
Her voice was thick with emotion.
Analysts are expecting flat sales in the coming months.
If you are uncertain about your physical condition, check with your doctor before trying these exercises.
I haven’t the remotest idea what you mean.
You’ll have to pump the boat out.
a history assignment
We find jobs for people right across the board, from chief executives to cleaners.
Many economists consider full employment an unrealistic goal.
He suffered head injuries in the crash.
the booming domestic economy
The search for the missing child continued, but time was slipping away.
On arrival, I was conducted to the commandant’s office.
Robson strongly objected to the terms of the contract.
Mr Chairman, I object. That is an unfair allegation.
In mathematics, we use many techniques of problem-solving.
the palace’s beautifully restored formal gardens
The consumer has become a major concern for this government.
the design process
She’s suffering a lot of pain.
a baby’s sensitive skin
driving instruction
molecular structures
He lost his job and his marriage fell apart.
healthy soil that can support plant life
Environmental groups want tougher action on pollution from cars.
For a thicker gravy, add more flour.
the action of alcohol on the liver
Doctors strongly recommend that fathers should be present at their baby’s birth.
ethnic Russians in Estonia
He may be prosecuted for revealing secrets about the security agency.
a warning issued by the Surgeon General
Vietnam restored diplomatic relations with South Korea on December 22.
regulations governing the safety of toys
Where can I buy those things that stretch your shoes?
The seas were dead calm.
their new release on the Ace Sounds label
You should ease up on the whisky.
The audience began clapping and cheering.
Every available space on the wall was covered in pictures.
His face turned purple with rage.
a pair of white kid boots
That same year, France concluded a trading agreement with Spain.
I can’t imagine a circumstance in which I would be willing to steal.
Education shouldn’t be measured purely by examination results.
modern labour-saving devices
Who will be conducting?
I knew I had handled the matter badly.
The campaign was accused of character assassination (=an unfair attack on someone’s character) because of its negative ads.
The windscreen was spotted with rain.
According to the Bible, man was made in the image of God.
We should be happy to buy it for a modest sum.
A young person who has finished the course will be given priority over one who has not.
She complained of her boss’s inappropriate behavior towards her.
a cruel disease that attacks the brain and nervous system
Owens came in and took charge of (=took control of) the situation.
Safety might suffer if costs are cut.
a can of orange soda
I need to have a private discussion with you.
I don’t suppose it is of any consequence now.
I took advantage of the good weather to paint the shed.
an electrical current
Maritza, 19, lives in Everett, outside of Boston.
the royal palace
domestic appliances such as washing machines
a grand vision for the country
I usually buy all my vegetables at the market.
sources of alternative energy (=energy produced by the sun, wind etc rather than by gas, coal etc)
He needed 200 stitches after being attacked with a broken bottle.
sports cars and other objects of desire
He gave up his seat on the board after 40 years.
If you send the application form in straight away, I can guarantee you an interview.
When I first started this job, I felt I had to prove myself.
Nuclear installations are built well away from the main centres of population.
The report stressed that student math skills need to improve.
He had three years in which to establish himself as prime minister.
Temperatures will be lower over the weekend.
Gallacher continued to argue with the referee throughout the game.
The security system will be reviewed after a three-month trial period.
the general mood of depression in the office
a powerful 24-valve engine
the Choco region of Columbia
In the nursing home she will have to pay for room and board.
She wasn’t exactly overjoyed at the prospect of looking after her niece.
These changes will involve everyone on the staff.
Our requests were met with a flat refusal.
I prefer playing singles.
When she got up from the table, it was obviously the signal for us to leave.
I just want to sit down and relax.
In each methane molecule there are four CH bonds.
Several members hold very right-wing beliefs.
Under these conditions, the fire can be rapidly controlled.
He would never yield up the castle to the English.
His air of confidence makes him a natural leader.
I’ll be brief; a lot of changes are going to happen.
Alcohol contributes to 100,000 deaths a year in the US.
materials like wood or stone
a direct challenge to the Governor’s authority
This land can’t support many cattle.
Milk is distributed to the local shops by Herald’s Dairies.
She feared she wouldn’t be able to cope with two new babies.
Club members can get a massive discount of £50.
East Sussex Education Authority
I think the government has lost touch with reality (=no longer understands what is real or true).
We teach the children to handle the animals gently.
the Zulu leader, Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi
Mrs Howell had an easy delivery.
the recall of their ambassador
Cut along the grain of the wood.
You don’t happen to recall his name, do you?
The orchestra played to a capacity crowd (=the largest number of people who can fit into a hall, theatre etc).
The panel spent 14 hours going over the evidence.
I met her quite by accident (=completely by accident).
the positive contribution to the community made by many older people
the football results
It was a tough call (=a difficult decision), but we had to cancel the game because of the weather.
Her studies no longer seemed to have any meaning.
children who are born with poor vision
She settled a small yearly sum on each of her children.
the businessman at the centre of the row over political donations
Her political views are slightly left of centre.
The job market has been badly hit by the recession.
She was told last year that she had cancer.
Too much blood has already been shed in this conflict.
Jimmy stretched out his hand to take the candy.
an elaborate network of canals
a powerful speech
the peaks and troughs of the US economy (=high and low points)
The matter was not finally settled until 1475.
Lon has no patience with anything of the child variety.
What professional qualifications does he have?
The case will be tried in a criminal court.
It is necessary to use extreme caution with chemicals.
With so much rain, conditions are far from ideal.
The majority of those who claim asylum are genuine refugees.
His stories of foreign adventure captured my imagination.
Road safety is taught to young children to avoid road accidents.
The bears are eventually released into the wild.
It is important to take measures to avoid the risk of fire.
Paint for the project was supplied by the city.
Patients who are given the new drug will be asked to monitor their progress.
I’ve had a tough few months, but I’ll survive.
Some of these chemicals are very damaging to the environment.
The US was able to pump up exports.
What attracted me most to the job was the chance to travel.
big sacks of grain
a British trade mission to Moscow
the principles behind government policies
The aircraft were identified as American.
powerful institutions such as world banks
Switzerland is a federal republic.
More changes are required to reverse the trend towards centralised power.
Cuvier wanted to turn natural history into a science that would rank with physics and chemistry.
She didn’t tell us she was coming, so if this screws up her plans that’s just tough.
She was a modest girl, always keeping covered, even in summer.
The National Guard was called in to restore order (=make people stop fighting and breaking the law) when riots broke out.
a fashion statement
A company from Darlington has just launched its latest range of fashion jewellery.
We maintain active links with other European universities.
The store recently adopted a drug testing policy for all new employees.
They only pay tax at a rate of 5%.
I think I preferred the television version.
Her hand described a circle in the air.
This once, I’ll stretch the rules and let you leave work early.
She supports her family by teaching evening classes.
Charges vary according to size.
The report seeks to relate the rise in crime to an increase in unemployment.
One of the door panels was badly damaged and had to be replaced.
political realities
The official line (=what is said publicly by people in authority) was that the troops were there to protect the King.
a new drug that is undergoing clinical trials
I retired to my room to think.
· The board meet once a month.
The plane was on a mission to hunt out enemy submarines.
The best treatment for a cold is to rest and drink lots of fluids.
our technical support team
They won with ease.
a protection racket (=the illegal activity of demanding money for protection)
As traffic grew, the conventional wisdom was to widen the roads.
· Their parents did not want them to marry.
A letter had been slipped under his door.
No, I’m not very domestic.
local council elections
We’ve got to balance economic interests and environmental interests.
These insurance companies take forever to settle a claim.
fund-raising activities
It’s not easy to switch clerical workers around.
Feature movies always run over budget.
The result is highly significant for the future of the province.
The novel must be a prime candidate for the award.
He strengthened US forces in the Gulf.
A good diet is essential for everyone.
Self-help books are all the fashion (=they are very fashionable).
We were both on the staff of the British Film Institute at the time.
The Italian ace cheated death in a spectacular 100 mph crash.
It is stating the obvious, but regular measurement of blood pressure is essential in older people.
Anyway, why didn’t you call the police?
a change of emphasis in government policy
Alcoholism affects all aspects of family life.
Three days after the earthquake, more than 150 people had still to be accounted for.
Free school lunches are given to children who qualify.
The adults have white bodies and grey backs.
parents’ loving concern for their children
the Royal Navy
a magic sword
an eye witness (=someone who sees an event) to the robbery
a country rich in natural resources
My salary is paid into my bank account.
The novel is an account of his spiritual journey.
The banks have committed themselves to boosting profits by slashing costs.
Management need to explore ways of improving office security.
artists’ materials
Construction of the aircraft is being concentrated at Prestwick.
All the evidence pointed to the conclusion that he was guilty.
Everyone seemed to be avoiding Nick.
Greene spent a brief time at Cambridge.
data on pesticide use
They sold their house at a healthy profit.
The interview was conducted in English.
She was in constant physical pain.
an ideal place for a walk
The gas containers burst at high pressure.
I suspected that there was something wrong with the engine.
The Marshall Plan was the engine of post-war economic growth.
McDougal was reluctant to go into detail (=give a lot of details) about the new deal.
He’s a great player, with brilliant technique.
The software makes it easy to create colourful graphs.
foreign aid used to buy medical supplies
Carl sat up in bed, yawned, and stretched.
an insurance policy
I don’t claim to be a feminist, but I’d like to see more women in top jobs.
I am writing to confirm a booking for a single room for the night of 6 June.
the government minister for the environment
I’m sure she will survive this crisis.
I want to start work on the garden but the house must take priority.
vital organs (=heart, lungs etc)
a member of the senior management team
the natural process of evolution
He fairly raced past us on his bike.
Standards have slipped in many parts of the industry.
I am willing to pay whatever price you ask.
On no account must you disturb me.
The courts were asked to adopt a more flexible approach to young offenders.
The conference provides a platform for people on the left wing of the party.
Our department has a staff of seven.
organizations which take a positive approach to creative thinking
She’s a very physical person.
Steve’s purple patch continued with a second victory on Tuesday.
the figure in the background
He finished 39 seconds ahead of his main rival.
a strawberry soda
a map with a scale of 1:250,000
The British Empire was at its peak in the mid 19th century.
I vote we go to the movies.
The data is captured by an optical scanner.
Britain’s footballing talent
display cases containing old photographs
They noticed patterns in the data.
Wetlands are environmentally sensitive areas.
Beating the defending champion has to be the highlight of my career.
a science-fiction writer
Videos often make good teaching material.
He was roughly handled by the mob.
I didn’t recognize you in your uniform.
She had acquired a taste for European beer.
The reasons why teenage girls get pregnant are many and various.
Hughes believes that immigration controls should not be relaxed.
Passengers are allowed one item of hand luggage each.
Her outside interests (=interests that are not part of her work) were numerous.
a cruise ship featuring extensive spa facilities
It is hospital policy to screen all mothers with certain risk factors.
Sarah made a mental note to ask Janine about it later.
The heights of the plants vary from 8 cm to 20 cm.
It’s a desperate situation demanding a desperate remedy.
The combination of rain and greasy surfaces made driving conditions treacherous.
In the end he had to be thrown out of the house by force.
The statistic comes from a study recently conducted by the British government.
Pugh laid particular stress on the need for discipline.
Will you rent a car while you’re in Spain?
The emphasis should be on the first syllable.
Their sales have now overtaken those of their arch-rival (=main or strongest rival).
I don’t like his stuff.
The plane has a range of 3,600 miles.
She displayed no emotion on the witness stand.
a debate on legalized gambling
Tickets are available from the box office.
people living in difficult social circumstances
Military spending imposes a huge strain on the economy.
management decisions
university graduates
a strong desire to win
a chess board
The solution to last week’s puzzle is on page 12.
Social issues figured prominently in the talks.
Sport can be character building (=develop good moral qualities).
The new service proved a modest success.
The railway link would connect Felixstowe with Fishguard.
He had twice the legal limit of alcohol in his bloodstream.
the causes of urban poverty
Many couples make themselves miserable by not communicating.
Monet loved to use gardens as his subjects.
The 1987 hurricane was the worst natural disaster to hit England for decades.
Have you heard their latest single?
All these PCs are linked up to the network.
A neighbor volunteered to keep an eye on the kids (=their children or the children they are responsible for).
She was hoping that the Mediterranean climate would restore her to full health.
The company hopes to launch the new drug by next October.
From Toronto you can connect to all other Air Canada destinations.
a woman’s menstrual cycle
bales of cloth for export to the continent
Stern put Travis in charge of (=gave him control of) the research team.
On average, men still earn more than women.
Scientists have said there is no cause for alarm.
He died from kidney failure.
She expressed a desire to visit us.
The industry has changed greatly with the appearance of new technologies.
a sensitive and intelligent young man
I didn’t know if I’d be able to handle such a large vehicle.
It’s easier to get to the college if you have your own transport (=a car, bicycle etc).
Public confidence in the government is at an all-time low.
Tests have proved that the system works.
The city needs to improve its public transportation (=buses, trains etc).
The president faces a strong challenge from nationalists.
changes that took place during the critical period at the end of the war
the threat of nuclear attack
My brothers and I were always a real trial to my parents.
On a typical day, our students go to classes from 7.30 am to 1 pm.
The southern state became more nationalist in character.
a piano arrangement of an old folk song
at the opening of the trial
With respect to your request, I am not yet able to agree.
His defence called several people as character witnesses (=people who think that someone has a good character).
Her experience meant that she had a big advantage over her opponent.
The movement and noise of the machines absorbed him completely.
a local infection
their demand for higher salaries
The government awarded a German company the contract.
The university administrators ignored criticism from outside.
Ann slipped the book into her bag.
It’s always been my policy not to gossip.
Children who do badly in school tests often perceive themselves to be failures.
an official investigation into the causes of the explosion
a pressure group that is campaigning to make cannabis legal
Board members met in closed session (=with nobody else present).
We still don’t know how the company proposes raising the money.
The problem is beginning to assume massive proportions.
The report compares the different types of home computer available.
I appreciate your concern, but honestly, I’m fine.
It could have sparked a major confrontation.
the status given to education
Do you have any protection?
I applied to four universities and was accepted by all of them.
Last year Dr Travis publicly attacked the idea that abortion should be available on demand.
a rapid increase in the divorce rate
I got to my feet, supporting myself on the side of the table.
One of the rooms was set aside for a yoga class.
an admission charge of $5
We received training on a number of spreadsheet and database applications.
The headmaster handled the situation very well.
At a prearranged signal the lights went out.
The union is desperate to avoid a split over this issue.
She was fired for not performing the duties outlined in her contract.
a dog straining at its lead
She sold the business and bought a farm with the profits.
It’s difficult to describe how I feel.
The River Nile extends as far south as Lake Victoria.
an undercover (=secret) agent
It took an extraordinary amount of work.
James left the restaurant, settling his account by credit card.
We flew coach out to Atlanta.
The security codes could be broken with relative ease.
Women, in general, tend to be more concerned than men about their personal appearance.
They still remain bitter rivals (=hate each other).
The conference was an important social event (=an event at which people can meet each other).
It’s hard to shift gear when you come home after a busy day at work.
Cole was recalled to the squad to replace the injured Quinn.
He was drunk when he crashed the car.
Shareholders voted to reject the offer.
Jack’s private opinion was that she was selfish.
Mozart’s Mass in C minor
Quantum mechanics is the study of the way atoms behave.
pollution in industrial areas
In Japan there is a lot of emphasis on politeness.
As soon as they found out I was a doctor, their whole attitude changed.
Paula was the product of a sheltered middle-class home.
the teachers’ pay award
I began to suspect his motives in inviting me.
The same thing happened to me last year.
In the normal course of events, the money is released within about three months.
sensitive matters such as national security
The test measures children’s achievements in reading, spelling, and maths.
the Israeli–Egyptian peace process
Capitalist society is by its very nature unstable.
A hot bath should help to relax you.
Could you just explain again for Mark’s benefit?
The girls come from a variety of different backgrounds.
a highly placed government official
a plain wall relieved by flecks of blue and yellow
Nurses are employed on a full-time basis.
It was some hours before she recovered consciousness.
projecting teeth
More people are choosing to work beyond retirement age.
Students with a background in chemistry will probably find the course easier.
serious discipline problems in the police force
Could you get an extra loaf of bread?
He held (=had) the rank of Chief Inspector.
He completed the job to the best of his ability.
There’s no percentage in worrying.
Consultants were brought in to provide some outside advice.
A significant part of Japan’s wealth is invested in the West.
It’s worth a lot but I couldn’t put a figure on it.
Many people now rely on the Internet for news.
With a goal in the second half, Spurs stretched their lead to 3–0.
I only saw Helen on the rare occasions when I went into her shop.
A limited edition of 2,000 copies has been published.
Let’s keep this conversation brief; I have a plane to catch.
There’s been a whole series of accidents on this road.
students from a wide range of backgrounds
There were almost no women MPs previous to 1945.
In May, staff went on strike, demanding better pay and conditions.
the social structure of organizations
She was aware of a tall dark figure watching her.
Silently, ranks of police edged closer to the crowds.
The building must be saved, whatever the cost.
They never give Gene any credit for all the extra work he does.
a gap in the traffic
The ageing president is preparing to transfer power to his son.
a growth on his lung
one of the most important events in the history of mankind
The books helped relieve the boredom of waiting.
The entire staff has done an outstanding job this year.
His chin bore a thick growth of stubble.
The US State Department issues millions of passports each year.
I was startled by the sudden opening of the door.
the ability to walk
I’m going to be working to a very tight schedule (=including a lot of things that must be done in a short time).
She tried to keep the door shut but the man forced it open.
I missed the connecting flight.
The ring had slipped off Julia’s finger.
Encourage students to take an active part in discussions.
The funeral was a very emotional experience for all of us.
The police are still hunting the killer.
a badly-behaved class
The increased costs will certainly strain our finances.
The position of the body led the police to suspect murder.
Are there intelligent beings on other planets?
the union’s executive
After dinner, they took a romantic stroll by the sea.
a pilot scheme which could be extended to other areas
Mr Stevens’ appointment was a typical case of promoting a man beyond his level of competence.
It is helpful if we address a few key questions here.
Increasing numbers of people are sensitive to cow’s milk.
The action opens (=starts) in a barbershop.
Further building can continue when money is made available.
Reporters sometimes stretch the facts to make a point.
Hey kid, come here.
The customer will benefit most, and that is the object of the exercise (=the purpose of what you are doing).
The project worked on the principle that each person’s experience was equally valuable.
He had always interested himself in foreign affairs.
In the poetry competition, aside from Hass, are four other entrants.
California absorbs many of the legal immigrants to the US.
industry chiefs
We have plans to expand into the U.S. market.
The courts must balance our liberty against the security of the nation.
Much of the book’s humour has been lost in translation (=is no longer effective when translated).
the ability to define clients’ needs
His accent identified him as a Frenchman.
those people eligible to claim benefit
It emphasizes the software’s convenience and ease of use.
I could tell that he wanted rid of me.
He doesn’t need you to organize his life for him.
The effect will be to increase unemployment and force down wages.
a camping site
Large retail chains are usually only prepared to locate stores in areas of high population density.
a land of high mountain ranges and deep valleys
Normally, I park behind the theatre.
reserved parking spaces
the problems facing women who wish to combine a career and family
The building was knocked down to make way for a block of flats (=a large building with many flats in it).
I was never able to establish whether she was telling the truth.
the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere
The fire department is still pumping floodwater out of the cellars.
Perhaps they could sit down and discuss things in a civilised fashion.
It’s partly the architecture which gives the town its personality.
A ridge of high pressure is building up strongly over the Atlantic.
Your headaches are due to stress.
Bad economic times can result in political dictatorships. Witness Germany in the 1930s.
Mind you don’t trap your fingers in the door.
If he is convicted, he could receive the death penalty (=be killed as a punishment).
The doctor has admitted that he was in error.
Shaun proposed to me only six months after we met.
scientists on a mission to the rainforest, to study possible medicinal uses of plants
Yesterday morning shares seemed to recover from Monday’s collapse.
It is very rare for her to miss a day at school.
It’s difficult to get a handle on how widespread this problem is.
He has a cheerful but quiet character.
I respect his views, although I do not agree with them.
I had met them the previous day.
You’re too modest! You’ve been a huge help to us.
He has the raw talent to become a star.
a government policy to relocate jobs from the capital to the regions
a law that first came into being in 1912
an international meeting to consider the environmental impacts of global warming
When it is finally settled, the Marshall estate may be worth no more than $100,000.
a group of US congressmen on a fact-finding mission to Northern Ireland
The people responsible for the accident have never been brought to account.
Our approach frightened the birds.
I’m not usually attracted to blondes.
I want you both to be on your best behaviour at Grandad’s.
The film is on general release.
the government’s carrot and stick approach in getting young people to find jobs
The children are aware of the danger of taking drugs.
a woman of extraordinary beauty
The pressure on doctors is increasing steadily.
There was an armed revolt in process.
The combined effects of the war and the drought resulted in famine.
It is the general’s role to develop overall strategy.
She showed a talent for acting at an early age.
Ten British and French companies combined to form the Channel Tunnel Group.
The Board of Directors met yesterday.
We appreciate that caring for children is an important job.
the collapse of the Soviet Union
The film exposes the utter horror of war.
a powerful sense of tradition
The restaurant is a family concern.
They insisted that everyone should come to the party.
Snakes will only attack if you disturb them.
Schools try to teach children a set of principles.
In the nature of things, there is bound to be the occasional accident.
She lives in a small apartment.
a foreign policy adviser
a child’s mental development
a betting slip
Britain wants to maintain its position as a world power.
We agreed to split the cost.
The tree stood out in stark relief against the snow.
It was just a slip of the tongue.
Guilty! She doesn’t know the meaning of the word!
Inflation has risen beyond the 5% level.
He owes me a large sum of money.
The principal listened to the boy’s story with sympathy and understanding.
Braque acknowledged his debt to Impressionist painting.
I soon came to the conclusion that she was lying.
There is private ownership of property in a market economy.
The organization has launched a campaign to raise $150,000.
She strongly suspected he was lying to her.
the remote time when dinosaurs walked the earth
New research has yielded up some surprising discoveries.
a series of laws against discrimination
Openness is at the heart of the American character.
national and international economic trends
We need a bit more system in the way we organize our files.
He became very emotional when we had to leave.
a UN agency responsible for helping refugees
high-yielding crops
The school’s test scores have not improved.
Is there life on other planets?
Interest rates fell by six percentage points (=6%).
His eyes were focussed straight ahead.
Many children buy books after they have been adapted for television.
She heard footsteps approaching.
Many people enjoy combining a holiday with learning a new skill.
All our models are made to scale.
careful management of the economy
Not insuring your belongings is a false economy (=it is cheaper but could have bad results).
Regular exercise will help to strengthen your muscles.
Police have appealed for witnesses to come forward.
There will be at least three senior doctors on the panel.
He paints a very romantic image of working-class communities.
The focus of the conference shifted from population growth to the education of women.
Ralph patted the sofa to indicate that she should join him.
He responded that he didn’t want to see anyone.
He tried to hide his desire for her.
Give me a call on my mobile.
His latest book reveals hidden talents.
Just lately, Kyra has been giving me the silent treatment (=refusing to speak to me because she is angry with me).
Abortion is a very emotional issue.
Allow extra time for your journey.
The store shifted over 1,000 copies of the book last week.
a new approach to teaching languages
In a class of 30 children, it is easy for one to slip through the net and learn nothing.
I was dressed in five minutes flat.
The rules can only be waived in exceptional circumstances.
The employment prospects for science graduates are excellent.
The fear of unemployment can be a source of deep anxiety to people.
And finally, I’d like to thank the crew.
a grant somewhere in the region of £2,500
a highly developed economy
He made a few notes to remind himself of what he wanted to say.
the gay community in San Francisco
Well, that’s just their tough luck! It was their mistake.
The Renault Clio competes against such cars as the Peugeot 206.
I’m not ready for a romantic relationship.
He cast his expert eye on the gardener’s work.
The strike represented a serious challenge to the government.
There are two major political parties in the US.
When did the accident happen?
With staff shortages and appalling weather conditions, the emergency services were at full stretch.
My car tends to overheat in the summer.
The designer surrounded himself with exquisite objects.
A panel of experts has looked at the proposal.
The car industry is now in crisis.
a 20% reduction in burglary compared with last year
good management and co-operation with staff
She has the potential to become a champion.
Brady committed a series of brutal murders.
What’s the hourly rate for cleaning?
The whole problem was quite beyond him.
a high pressure job
I had never been in the prince’s private apartments before.
The new bridge was erected as a temporary measure to replace the one which was destroyed by floods.
The terrorists will switch tactics.
Any odd scrap of paper will do.
Twenty miners were trapped underground.
Put the car into reverse.
The factory plans to invest in new computers.
I generally get in to work by 8.00.
Two of the tyres had to be replaced.
the UN Security Council
The government has agreed in principle to a referendum.
the trials and tribulations of running a business
the world of high finance (=financial activities involving very large amounts of money)
military strategies
What prompted you to buy that suit?
The report was the product of four years’ hard work.
The magic words ‘a million pounds’ will get everyone’s attention.
Hurd signed as a professional in 1998.
I try and work out at the local gym once a week.
The company projected an annual growth rate of 3%.
Democracy implies a respect for individual liberties.
The landlord gave them notice to quit the premises within seven days.
We’re stretched at the moment, otherwise we’d go.
We work mainly with the elderly and other vulnerable groups.
He made some highly critical remarks.
We look at each other’s work and criticize it.
He had invested heavily (=invested a lot of money) in the bond market.
I’ll check the departure board for train times.
He was straining every nerve to impress the judges.
There are billions of things I want to say.
The centre provides help for people suffering from mental illness.
the Institution of Electrical Engineers
Could I have tuna instead of ham?
Good training will give a beginner the confidence to enjoy skiing.
Extra police officers were brought in, although in the event the demonstration passed off peacefully.
She immediately set about attacking the problem.
famine relief for victims of the drought
The factory has been working at full capacity (=making the most amount of things that it can).
She shifted her gaze from me to Bobby.
You’ll have to work on your delivery.
The chances are that the government will be voted out of office.
Perhaps she could put some of her talents to good account by helping us.
We couldn’t locate the source of the radio signal.
The air was thick with cigarette smoke.
External doors should be of robust construction.
The new trade figures have just been released.
He was the author of two books on China.
the cycle of the seasons
Job prospects for graduates don’t look good.
He dived and caught the ball at full stretch.
As she grew up, her father was of no account to her.
the writer of the previous message on this topic
Many small businesses have fallen victim to the recession.
Venice was a painful reminder of her marriage.
The report has been criticized as inaccurate and incomplete.
We believe in investing in scientific research.
I hope the team will project a smart professional image.
California has adopted a tough stance on the issue.
The project was completed within budget.
Pesticides seriously upset the balance of nature.
This happens to be my house!
Let me remind you that you are expected to arrive on time.
There are only three candidates for the job.
a woman of great character
the highest price ever paid for a single work of art
He became ill and was retired early.
Cooder was encouraged to begin playing the guitar by his father.
scenes of abject poverty
It can take a long time for your visa application to be processed.
The plane’s wing was damaged on impact.
drugs to lower blood pressure
The report concluded that the school should be closed immediately.
Towns and cities all over the country have been flooded.
The disco went on until beyond midnight.
The floods were responsible for over a hundred deaths.
He switched off the car’s engine and waited.
The hijackers refuse to yield to demands to release the passengers.
A lot depends on building and maintaining a good relationship with your customers.
Drake was admitted into the club in 1997.
Thank you, Shirley, that’s grand.
Transfer the meat to warm plates.
They were lucky to get a result on Saturday.
It seemed that no matter what she did, more was demanded of her.
a book of magic spells
The report concerns the drug traffic on the Mexican–US border.
a couple of shady characters standing on the corner
I’ll replace the vase I broke as soon as possible.
I’m going to ask her to marry me on St Valentine’s Day.
Miles Davis, truly one of the giants of jazz
Try to set aside a few hours a week for exercise.
Anyway, I must be going now.
He was moved by her obvious concern.
community education programmes
Please don’t split up when we get to the museum.
the Royal College of Music
The article throws into sharp relief the differences between the two theories.
Gibson became famous in action movies.
The duties of the post are difficult to define.
The company is preparing for zero growth (=no growth) this year.
concentration on your health
Observe how the people in the group interact.
British Airways has announced disappointing results for the first half of the year.
plans to make the carrying of identity cards a legal requirement
Everyone lines up in ranks, all facing the instructor.
a deadly poison
Warhol used everyday items as the raw ingredients of his art.
Leave it to me. I can handle it.
Australia’s unemployment rate rose to 6.5% in February.
This job is so boring. I wish I could do something more creative.
She dismissed the statement as an empty threat.
When the red light comes on, you should recharge the battery.
You will have to pay the sum of the two sets of costs.
a history graduate
The train links up with the ferry at Dover.
The furnace man’s job was to pump away furiously at the bellows.
Each individual receives two genes, one inherited from each parent.
Lack of sleep doesn’t matter on the odd occasion.
There was disagreement among the agency's board of governors.
The photo doesn’t do her justice.
Trust you to lower the tone of the conversation (=include rude jokes etc in what you say)!
We hope they will be able to resolve the situation without resort to force.
The hotel’s only redeeming features (=things that make it acceptable) were that it was cheap and near the city centre.
Was my name mentioned at all?
a black and white striped pattern
My mother was very tough on my sister.
The main distinguishing feature of this species is the leaf shape.
Residents can use the gym at no extra cost.
Liz was taken to the delivery room (=a room in a hospital for births) immediately.
Can you account for your movements on that night?
a town with a relatively low crime rate
He perceived that there was no other way out of the crisis.
the opening of the Cannes film festival
She was offered employment in the sales office.
The flags were lowered to half-mast.
the most direct route home
In the photograph he seemed devoid of facial expression (=having no expression on his face).
The US responded by sending troops into Laos.
I retired from teaching three years ago.
A line of trees screened the house from the road.
My husband and I have a joint account (=one that is shared between two people).
Refugees are still flooding across the border.
The hotel prides itself on maintaining high standards.
Define precisely what you mean by ‘crime’.
Turn over the raw edges and stitch.
Gentle exercise can relax stiff shoulder muscles.
His behavior fits a pattern of violent acts.
List all your sources at the end of your essay.
The recent revelations may prove embarrassing to the president.
She behaved in a very responsible way.
I had no job, no education, and no prospects.
Wolves tend to hunt in packs (=hunt in groups).
the force of his personality
We insist on formal dress for dinner.
It is now possible to screen babies for diabetes.
She needed all her powers of concentration to stop herself from slipping on the icy road.
Why don’t you wait until the traffic eases off a little?
The store is having a sale on furniture and household items.
regular patrols along the border with France
Mary declined Jay’s invitation to dinner.
· He and the waiter started arguing.
It is essential to get good professional advice.
British medical qualifications are recognized in Canada.
a paper company which imports raw materials (=substances which have not been treated) from North America.
question-and-answer sessions
The tanker is registered in Rotterdam.
This autumn the BBC will be showing a series of French films.
dealing with problems in an adult way
the rapidly expanding field of information technology
I guarantee you’ll love this film.
The warm weather and the beautiful scenery began to work their magic and she started to relax.
Nelson launched into a blistering criticism of greedy lawyers.
I knew I could rely on David.
Martin was reading the early edition of the Evening News.
the Labour party platform
Our findings have far-reaching consequences for researchers.
The cause of the crash was engine failure.
a column of figures
The government have denied any suggestion of involvement in her death.
They gave me barely enough food to sustain me.
an intelligent question
We do accept payment in instalments (=paying in small amounts over a period of time).
The opinion poll is a clear signal of people’s dissatisfaction with the government.
Closure of the plant means 80 workers are facing unemployment.
Loyalty has gone by the board.
Send an email to the above address to report a broken link (=a link that is not working properly).
More shoppers are making the switch to organic food.
Paul admitted to me that he sometimes feels jealous of my friendship with Stanley.
We’re trying to improve access for disabled visitors.
I’ve agreed to help with arrangements for the party.
The fighting has stopped, but the situation is still critical.
The Sun makes up 99.9% of the mass of our solar system.
His father was killed in action in Vietnam.
The new measures were seen by many as an attack on the Scottish way of life.
Wind turbines generate electricity for the local community.
She worked as a librarian before switching to journalism.
He should be able to claim the price of the ticket back.
The refugees were allowed to remain in the UK.
thick wool socks (=socks that are heavy and warm)
The airline is legally responsible for the safety of its passengers.
The team seems to have lost its competitive edge recently (=its ability to compete well).
The school raises money by organizing fundraising events.
Drug abuse is the cancer of our society.
local residents
The minister declined to comment (=refused to speak to people who report the news) about the progress of the peace talks.
The newest model has several advantages over its rivals.
The school has an arrangement with local businesses.
dramatic rises in fuel consumption
Children grow up with a mixture of character traits (=character qualities) from both sides of their family.
Oil production is down from its peak of two years ago.
The house has great possibilities.
All companies must comply with the regulations.
So far the ceasefire has been observed by both sides.
the residents of Westville
luxury items such as exotic spices and perfumes
Mr Kobayashi was chosen to represent the company at the conference.
the latest addition to our designer range
The university welcomes applications from overseas students.
His interests include walking and golf.
cancer of the womb
Have you any alternative suggestions?
The light was too dim for me to distinguish anything clearly.
The area remains under threat from commercial developers.
The magazine is desperately trying to shed its old-fashioned image.
There was something odd about him.
rich and powerful nations
If I have a map, I can figure it out.
The European Union is considering whether to provide financial support for the expedition.
the recent growth of interest in African music
Greeks face the prospect of new general elections next month.
This train connects with the one to Glasgow.
His success projected him onto Channel 4‘s comedy series ’Packet of Three'.
The office has direct computer links to over 100 firms.
Isn’t he taking a bit of a risk in coming here?
I had a massive argument with her.
TV can be a positive influence.
He and his wife took the painful decision to switch off their son’s life support machine.
public services such as education, housing and transport
In theory, everyone will have to pay the new tax.
How can I provide feedback without making someone angry?
teaching at primary level
We need to focus public attention on this issue.
In 1981 Henry Fonda was voted Best Actor for ‘On Golden Pond’.
Joan is the only lawyer we have on staff.
a worldwide network of contacts
an award for unfair dismissal
He maintained his innocence and said the allegations were ‘ridiculous’.
The engine won’t start.
Turn sparkling wine into Buck’s Fizz with the addition of chilled orange juice.
Smoking is one of the major causes of cancer.
Freia’s theme in Wagner’s opera
the attempt to identify crime with poverty and social problems
List your tasks in order of priority (=most important first).
The murder rate in the city has risen to four times the national average.
It is essential to book in advance.
the creative process of writing a poem
a design fault
Paul has strong opinions on most subjects.
As we climbed the final few metres, we felt a sense of achievement.
The group claimed responsibility for the bombings.
He has a lot of contacts in the media.
China’s austerity program has cut domestic consumption (=when products are bought in the country where they were produced).
She will be working out her problems in her own fashion (=in the way that she usually does this).
forms of intelligent life
There’s a remote chance that you can catch him before he leaves.
This species of dolphin is widely distributed throughout the world.
a course in graphic design
The club’s priority is to win the League.
A statement of your terms and conditions of employment can be found in the Personnel Handbook.
He never suspected anything.
Our sales staff are there to give you helpful advice.
He’s a good player, but ‘world-class’ is stretching it.
Alexander Graham Bell invented the telephone in 1876.
the government’s long-term economic strategy
There has been widespread public debate over the introduction of genetically modified food.
the administration of justice
a floral design
She often complains about not feeling appreciated at work.
families on relief during the Depression
She’s had a tough life.
Jake’s a real tough guy.
The factor that distinguishes this company from the competition is customer service.
the engine housing
Our only concern is the children’s welfare.
a period of rapid growth in the economy
Whether that would have made any difference is open to debate.
low-status jobs
I had a lot of financial commitments.
The spirited mood on Friday was in sharp contrast to the tense atmosphere last week.
one of the major sporting events of the year
a figure at the edge of her vision
The manufacturers say the device will be on the market by May.
I would never recommend using a sunbed on a regular basis.
The issues being discussed here are not unique to the US.
They are ready to mount a challenge for the championship.
Martin attacked his meal (=started eating) with vigour.
Petrol can be chosen at the flick of a switch.
Fancy designer labels tend to come with fancy price tags to match.
You always were Dad’s favourite.
the conflict between tradition and innovation
Give me a hand to shift these chairs.
The child could not be held responsible for his actions (=he was too young to be blamed for them).
She was over the age limit and, in consequence, her application was rejected.
challenges to the existing power structure
The majority of holiday flights depart and arrive on schedule.
The interest on the loan is 16% per year.
In its raw state, cocoa is very bitter.
the bonds of fear and guilt
We’re supposed to check out of the hotel by 11 o'clock.
the treatment of polluted rivers
an ideal spot for a picnic
An analysis of the survey data was performed.
The electric windows are an important design feature of this model.
Can you set the video to record the football match?
It’s important not to jump to conclusions.
A large number of homes lack adequate security measures.
the seat immediately behind the driver
The rebels are in effective control of the city.
Please inform us of any change of address as soon as possible.
The Labour government came under pressure from the trade unions.
The police try to keep rival supporters apart at all matches.
Nearly 80% of Swiss citizens on average turn out to vote.
The government has extended the ban on the import of beef until June.
The budget won’t stretch to a new car this year.
A number of theories have been proposed to explain the phenomenon.
She fell against a table and split her lip.
A licence to sell alcohol was granted to the club.
the demands of modern life
Everyone’s working flat out to finish on time.
the approach of autumn
The files were left in your charge.
We stay in contact by email.
Influences from the outside can undermine the values you want to teach your children.
There was a mass of people around the club entrance.
We communicated mostly by e-mail.
I reversed the car into a side road.
She is a highly educated woman.
Irvine Welsh first captured the headlines with his novel ‘Trainspotting’.
You might be entitled to housing benefit.
the stresses and strains of police life
a score of 3–2
a very influential and powerful family
The two lawyers differed about how to present the case.
Many students derived enormous satisfaction from the course.
When we got up, it was still dark outside.
a nationally representative sample of over 950 elderly persons
No one was supposed to know about it.
an unlimited-use Internet account
Police described her attacker as a white male aged about 25.
He laughed in relief.
Expensive restaurants aren’t necessarily the best.
· He hurt his leg playing rugby.
Mental illness is a very complicated subject.
It’s about 30,000 in round figures (=to the nearest 10, 20, 100 etc).
The exhibition transfers to York City Art Gallery on 23rd January.
Each plant, without exception, contains some kind of salt.
his comments about asylum seekers
Sofia was in the bedroom tending to her son.
They demanded that the military government free all political prisoners.
the ancient art of calligraphy
Losing the Senate vote was a serious reverse for the president.
The witness’s story gained credit with the jury.
Northampton Borough Council
We moved here because there was very little crime.
We’re taking active steps (=doing practical things) to deal with the problem.
Some birds use warm air currents to help them fly.
Organize yourself to arrive at places on time.
They have an average-size front garden and a large rear garden.
He came on board in the late sixties and spent two decades with the agency.
romantic music
She was holding an extremely odd-looking weapon.
The company announced that it would cut 500 jobs as part of an economy drive (=a way to save money).
You may need to seek professional help.
He was killed while on assignment abroad.
Her prompt actions probably saved my life.
decisions which affect our lives
a skirt made in six panels
Colds do not respond to antibiotics.
They haven’t settled on a name for the baby yet.
the economic consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster
This excellent book will be a welcome addition to the library of any student.
the wooden supports of the bridge
The law applies to all EU countries; Britain is no exception.
an independent charity
the regulation of public spending
The official report into the accident says that it was caused by pilot error (=a mistake by the pilot).
· The changes have to do with events that took place over ten years ago.
They’re transferring him to a special unit at Great Ormond Street Hospital.
Her room was untidy, but that was quite normal.
Both men intend to appeal against their convictions.
Use a courier and charge it to the department.
The canvas is stretched over a wooden frame.
Diets are most effective when combined with exercise.
top executives on high salaries
Simon’s stock is high in the network news business.
He’s in hospital, recovering from a heart attack.
The house was in a terrible condition.
· Where did you get that tie?
the Microsoft campus outside Seattle
Richard’s heavy-rimmed glasses invested him with an air of intelligence.
Do the same rules apply to part-time workers?
What’s your favourite colour?
Management consultants were brought in from outside the company.
The tyre dump is a major fire risk (=something that could cause a dangerous fire).
It was a clear attempt to shift the responsibility for the crime onto the victim.
He urged her forward, his hand under her elbow.
If you have small children, make sure that you store all medicines out of harm’s way.
We have a huge stock of quality carpets on sale.
What’s the magic word then, Katie?
The car’s got a flat battery.
He was entitled to recover damages from the defendants.
He strode across the bathroom, shedding wet clothes as he went.
Such tasks are far beyond the scope of the average schoolkid.
This part of the business has now been split off from the main company.
This painting is typical of his work.
She’s of medium height.
Do they take plastic? (=can you pay using a credit card?)
a physiotherapist who wanted to make a dramatic career change by becoming an author
While none of these pictures is of the first rank (=of the highest quality), some are of interest.
I’d recommend this book to anyone who has an interest in jazz.
the pressure on all of us to keep slim
Admit it! I’m right, aren’t I?
What is the particular appeal of this island?
You have to take the top off to change the batteries.
The red stems of this bush provide a contrast to the drab brown of the winter garden.
Place the two posts 6 metres apart.
a scale drawing of the Eiffel Tower
My fear turned into a respect for the sea.
The golf tournament is a professional event.
Burns used his family connections to good advantage.
the future of planet Earth
a private citizen
places of historical interest
It figures that she’d be mad at you, after what you did.
My wishes didn’t figure among his considerations.
A peace settlement now looks like a real possibility.
Mark can’t possibly drive home in that condition (=when he is so drunk, ill, or upset).
He retired immediately after the end of the war.
The population is distributed in a very uneven pattern.
Many doubted the official version of events.
religious beliefs
the threat of economic collapse
The bell is massive, weighing over 40 tons.
The middle part of the bridge is supported by two huge towers.
How many students have registered for English classes?
a new range of kitchenware
Her heart began to pound frantically, as if she were having a panic attack.
It’s been a very positive experience for her.
I must admit, I didn’t actually do anything to help her.
He was arrested and charged with criminal damage (=damaging someone’s property illegally).
the original version of the text
Acts of terrorism must not escape justice.
Is he single?
A disturbing trend is that victims of violence are getting younger.
jagged peaks
I felt a huge surge of relief and happiness.
Lately Nick and Lou have been as thick as thieves.
Several members of the court were under suspicion.
Some of his most powerful writing is based on his childhood experiences.
Thank you for your advice; it’s been very helpful.
The company is ready to meet the challenges of the next few years.
We have a very large product range.
It’s not exactly a cultural center like Paris.
the raw material (=information that has not been carefully examined) for an article
Tristan threw up his hands in a dramatic gesture.
One of the concerns that people have is the side effects of treatment.
Give my respects to your wife.
Richardson concluded from his studies that equality between the sexes is still a long way off.
Doctors have criticized the government for failing to invest enough in the health service.
Commanders failed to provide for an attack by sea.
instant coffee
This is major? You got me out of bed for this?
Economic growth is slow.
Women. I just can’t figure them out.
children born outside of marriage
Is there a market for his invention?
James I created him Duke of Buckingham.
How do you suppose he got here?
The president is paying a private visit to Europe.
The researchers put forward a well-argued case for banning the drug.
These measures are vital to national security.
the condition of the poor in our cities
We speak Danish at home so that the boys don’t lose touch with their language and culture.
The resolution was proposed by the chairman of the International Committee.
Eggs became the focus for the food poisoning scare.
I was determined not to put my mother in an institution.
The research has many practical applications.
The tapes can be used in class or for independent study.
The whole thing comes apart so that you can clean it.
I’m only trying to be helpful.
At this point the path seemed to disappear altogether (=disappear completely).
commitments of food and medical aid of over $4 billion
He used to affect a foreign accent.
We played support to a band called Shallow.
The birth rate for older women has declined, but, by contrast, births to teenage mothers have increased.
a new drug that is in the experimental phase
people who survive cancer
a long split in the sleeve of his coat
There are fewer opportunities for new graduates this year.
How much does it cost per kilo?
It’s normal to feel nervous before an exam.
This puts the chairman in a very tight spot.
The average of 3, 8, and 10 is 7.
She was determined to marry all of her daughters to rich men.
the principles of French law
I don’t want to talk about it now. I’m not in the mood.
The British ten-pence coin has a lion on the reverse.
In her book she poses the question ‘How much do we need to be happy?’.
a column of smoke
Goya was one of the first painters to look for a wider audience for his work.
programs aimed at relieving unemployment
The nervous system regulates our bodily functions (=eating, breathing, going to the toilet etc).
The ban has been extended beyond 2003.
Five small boys on skis is a recipe for disaster (=is very likely to end badly).
teachers that do their best for the children in their charge
federal law
What she did was stupid beyond belief.
We should raise the issue of discrimination with the council.
He goes to great lengths to maintain these contacts.
terrorist activity that is a threat to national security
Accidents are the inevitable result of driving too fast.
Kennedy arrived at the same conclusion by a different route.
a center of academic excellence (=a very good place for education)
a Japanese version of an English play
Instead of being annoyed, he seemed quite pleased.
Meetings were held to update employees as soon as new information became available.
Pay increases will now be linked to performance.
You’re talking garbage.
a Victorian fireplace restored to its former glory
In Britain there are three main intelligence organizations.
No blame can be attached to Roy for the incident.
The musician spends years perfecting his craft.
She decided to represent herself (=speak for herself without a lawyer) during the trial.
He insisted upon checking everything himself.
the physical environment
Ideas that work well in one school often don’t transfer well to another.
That song always reminds me of our first date.
Under the present system, we do not have any flexibility.
I’m not an expert, but I appreciate fine works of art.
If you come in under budget, everyone will be very impressed.
The show had a massive audience, ranging from children to grandparents.
I strained my ears, listening for any sound in the silence of the cave.
a tiny studio
David watched her car until it disappeared from view.
It’s time we got rid of all these old toys.
Residents are complaining because traffic in the area has increased.
artificial distinctions
We had to abandon the car and walk the rest of the way.
Our strong sense of national identity has been shaped by our history.
The judge committed him to prison for six months.
childcare facilities
Both her sons are in the forces.
He has some grand designs for the company.
New safety measures were being demanded after last night’s horrific train crash.
Little of the original building remains.
The shaver can be charged up.
Use a glue gun to form a strong bond on wood or china.
We don’t allow diving in the pool.
A lot of people make the assumption that poverty only exists in the Third World.
Most homicide victims are under 30.
Campbell has made health care a central theme in his campaign.
He had two options.
Canada’s vast mineral resources
The outcome of the battle was a foregone conclusion.
She soon got the measure of her opponent.
With your support, we can help these youngsters.
patterns of behaviour that derive from basic beliefs
The salesman tried to interest me in the higher-priced model.
leasing and other forms of business finance
a series of articles on community care
He rose from the ranks to become a Field Marshal (=he became an officer after starting as an ordinary soldier).
Meeting them doesn’t commit us to anything.
They were accused of abandoning their socialist principles.
The children are our first priority.
a brief description of the film
Whooping cough occurs mainly in young children.
Uncle Ted’s chair collapsed under his weight.
The couple are unable to have children of their own, but hope to adopt.
There are huge gaps in my knowledge of history.
female sexual desire
Her face registered shock and anger.
Access to the papers is restricted to senior management.
one of our longest-serving staff members
a small cottage in an idyllic spot
Julia felt trapped in her role of wife and mother.
She’s a helpful child.
consumer products such as VCRs
He escaped with only minor injuries.
Tim may switch his BMW for something else.
Government figures underestimate the problem.
solar panels that trap the sun’s heat
All theories should be built on a foundation of factual knowledge.
a system that provides instant access to client information
Most capital cities have extensive exchange facilities.
Because of rising costs, the company released 10% of their workforce.
The police have appealed to anyone with information to come forward and talk to them.
Melinda was plain and knew she couldn’t compete with her sister where boys were concerned.
The artist’s work shows the perfect union of craftsmanship and imagination.
Carr slips the ball to King who scores easily.
A single tree gave shade from the sun.
The programme has a very wide appeal.
He was kept in hospital overnight as a precautionary measure.
Even as a young woman she had been perceived as a future chief executive.
Profits will be split between three major charities.
fresh milk deliveries
Due to circumstances beyond our control, the performance has had to be cancelled.
Some farmers rent their land from the council.
Mr Braley has been made aware of the need for absolute secrecy.
Professional athletes may now compete at the Olympics.
The atmosphere at home was rather tense.
We’ll stretch a point (=allow a rule to be broken) and let the baby travel free this time.
an archaeological site
a ban on the export of toxic waste
Your threats don’t scare me.
I have no desire to cause any trouble.
a raid by European military forces (=the army, navy, or air force)
The park remains unfinished due to lack of funds.
In June 1667, England suffered a humiliating defeat by the Dutch.
This business plan looks very professional.
She laid down only one condition: that her name not be revealed.
You must put aside your pride and call her.
It took muscle to work in an old-fashioned kitchen.
the religion of ancient Egypt
Millions of elderly people live in poverty.
The company certainly has the potential for growth.
You could put an advert in some magazine, journal, newspaper, or whatever.
There was an underlying current of discontent among teachers.
We were stranded with engine trouble on a deserted highway.
shop windows displaying the latest fashions
The work’s too easy. The students aren’t being stretched enough.
The charity urged quick action.
He has scored 12 goals so far this season.
Cars without security devices are an easy target for the thief.
One in three marriages ends in divorce.
an urgent whisper
The car handles well, even on wet roads.
changes to the company’s pay scale
the policies necessary to sustain economic growth
He writes a weekly column for ‘The Times’.
I heard a noise and went downstairs to investigate.
thick fog
I didn’t see your car, so I assumed you’d gone out.
The school was completely destroyed by fire.
Hemoglobin is a product of red blood cells.
the plastics industry
Doctors say it is too early to measure the effectiveness of the drug.
a new issue of bonds
Is your office on a bus route?
Regulations require that students attend at least 90% of the lectures.
Medical treatment varies greatly from state to state.
The ski instructor showed us some special stretches.
the threat of famine
Their proposal was only a device to confuse the opposition.
Some of the issues surrounding alcohol abuse are very complex.
The mill produces what is widely acknowledged to be the finest wool in the world.
The war has split the nation in two.
It’s time you started acting like a responsible adult.
This adjustment of the figures allows a fairer comparison.
an attorney who is a specialist in banking law
This is the most efficient way to build up and maintain a reasonable level of physical fitness.
a strong belief in God
Ken was furious, but forced himself to appear calm on the outside.
Safety is our chief concern.
During sleep, our spine no longer needs to support the weight of our body.
You could always try appealing to his better nature.
His time here provided the raw material for his novel.
I don’t suppose I’ll ever see her again.
A few spots of rain began to fall.
As for the cost, you don’t need to worry on that score.
Anyway, let’s leave that for the moment and look at this month’s profit figures.
Force is only justified in extreme circumstances.
Two people have been critically injured in an accident.
Plants absorb nutrients from the soil.
Candida is the most interesting character in the play.
the establishment of diplomatic contacts
Violence seems to feature heavily in all of his books.
The 1936 Olympics were used as a vehicle for Nazi propaganda.
Tom’s mother was highly critical of the school’s approach.
The prime minister narrowly avoided a leadership challenge last year.
The vote was extended to all women aged 21 and over in 1928.
All small companies will need to make savings if they are to survive.
a bowl of breakfast cereal
Priests have witnessed an increase in religious intolerance.
The new engines will lead to savings in fuel.
harmful radioactive material
the benefits of contact lenses
According to the Secretary of State, the Russians face no threat from an expanded NATO.
families on benefit
The company says that growth of 10% is on target.
the construction of sociological theory
Why would she try to split us up?
I hope that the decision taken today will be to the benefit of the whole nation.
There are ways of legally avoiding taxes.
The approach to learning at this school stands in marked contrast to the traditional methods used at other schools nearby.
Most health chiefs believe the reforms have gone too far.
I don’t allow the cat in the bedroom.
the stock market crash of October 1987
He assumed power in a bloody coup in 1990.
Beans are a very good source of protein.
The party was well and truly over.
The way ants work is an object lesson in order and organization.
former President Clinton
Their expedition nearly ended in disaster, when one of the climbers slid off the mountain.
the adult population
a historical novel
his modest ambitions
The idea of working abroad really appeals to me.
The bomb exploded on contact (=at the moment it touched something).
The pressure of the water turns the wheel.
Out of respect for the wishes of her family, the affair was not reported in the media.
The men were sent into action with little or no training.
There are 12 children on board the ship.
He was in his late twenties and of average height.
Investigators hope to shed light on what started the fire.
He was always criticising his wife’s appearance.
On the credit side, the book is extremely well researched.
He was horrified at some of the images he saw on the screen.
Whether or not you qualify for a loan will depend on your financial circumstances.
We hope the factions will be able to settle their differences (=agree to stop arguing) by peaceful means.
People use more than words when they communicate with each other.
The obvious thing is to speak to her before you make a decision.
a south-facing aspect
We’ll give you a week’s trial in the job to see how you measure up.
Mr Li is a leading authority on Chinese food.
My family wasn’t wealthy by any stretch of the imagination.
I handled most of the paperwork.
This was not the only option open to him.
Babies soon begin to take an interest in the world around them.
advanced weapon systems
the most effective ways of reducing inner city congestion
At half-time the score was one all.
a plan to disarm the rebel forces (=those fighting against the government)
The town itself has little to recommend it.
the attack on Pearl Harbor
The traffic police will accept fines in cash immediately.
top snooker professionals
Predators have been observed to avoid attacking brightly coloured species.
Greg watched as the coffin was lowered.
Access is by means of a small door on the right.
She usually deals with serious criminal cases.
Investors in the property market are worried about rising inflation.
They won the game by a single point.
This should ease the burden on busy teachers.
commuters who travel on public transport (=buses, trains etc)
I keep accounts for the business, but I’m not scientific about it.
Let’s think about it for a while, for a few days anyway.
Some birth defects are linked to smoking during pregnancy.
efforts to resolve the conflict
Our birthdays are exactly a month apart.
· He can’t tell the difference between right and wrong.
She had a vision in which Jesus appeared before her.
The doctors suspected pneumonia.
The females are smaller and less powerful than the males.
Cheap houses aren’t as thick on the ground as they used to be.
Judith lay on the settee, absorbed in her book.
the site of a proposed missile base
Am I at risk because of some incident in my sexual past?
The skin on my feet was rubbed raw.
Analysts expect the pound to come under pressure.
He admitted that, with the benefit of hindsight, the original launch had not been large enough.
The electrical work will be carried out in phase with the other renovations.
Archimedes’ principle
He took a credit card out of his wallet.
He replaced the book on the shelf.
She could see her face reflected in the car’s windshield.
How does he propose to deal with the situation?
Rollins will be working in an advisory capacity on this project.
The customer is high on our list of priorities.
Danny’s been spending money like it’s going out of fashion.
Any information given during the interview will be treated in the strictest confidence.
It’ll be years before we’ve paid off the loan.
We need to raise finance for further research.
a household with an annual income of $60,000
It was his first public appearance since the election.
Through the window I could see the commanding figure of Mrs Bradshaw.
Clothes and blankets have been distributed among the refugees.
the international scientific community (=scientists)
The police must establish the facts of the case before proceeding.
There is a growing conflict of interest between her position as a politician and her business activities.
The consumption of alcohol on the premises is forbidden.
The changes will affect local authorities across the board.
Interest rates are tending upwards.
We want to involve the workforce at all stages of the decision-making process.
artificial light
the benefits of contact lenses
He got a job pumping gas for the hotel guests.
a disease specific to horses
The guard will be relieved at midnight.
Disaster struck when two men were killed during their parachute jumps.
The dignity and courage shown by the president may tip the balance in his party’s favour.
Surely they have a rightful claim on their father’s land?
She will insist on washing her hair just when I want to have a bath.
We need to force the pace on alternative energy policies.
Jiang set annual growth targets of 8–9%.
What topics are under debate in Congress this week?
These ideas are often difficult to apply in practice.
There is growing public anxiety over levels of air pollution in our cities.
You can access our homepage via the Internet.
I’d like to see the new computer system in action.
a three-course set menu (=dishes which you do not choose for yourself)
A young man from Canada had attached himself to Sam.
The regulations were introduced in order to safeguard the interests of local fishing communities.
She slipped into unconsciousness and died the next day.
Martha was chopping vegetables on a wooden board.
Critics maintain that these reforms will lead to a decline in educational standards.
The two young princes were not singled out for special treatment at school.
I don’t approve of cosmetic surgery.
Tea and biscuits will be provided.
vegetable stock
The agreement will ease the way for other countries to join the EU.
The hijacked plane was forced down by military jets.
One of the distinguishing features (=features that are different from other things of the same sort) of modern banking is its dependence on computers.
Williams asked to be released from her contract.
He agreed to sell the car and split the proceeds with his brother.
These results are a signal that the child may need special help.
They might be willing to settle out of court (=come to an agreement without going to a court of law).
Men these days have to avoid attracting the ‘sexist’ label.
Fawcett was a truly remarkable man.
He’s honest but he lacks personality.
As a trainee reporter, she spent most of her time on human interest stories.
Thanks ever so much for your help, I really appreciate it.
on the extreme edge of the cliff
the relief of Mafeking
She drove through Westport, and stopped a few miles beyond at a wayside inn.
People should have a healthy respect for alcohol (=a sensible careful attitude towards it).
The team performed poorly on Saturday.
The cheaper drugs are just as effective in treating arthritis.
We flew to Athens via Paris.
I learned most of what I know about gardening through trial and error.
I haven’t received my bank statement for last month yet.
They no longer advertise alcohol or cigarettes at sporting events.
Don’t just launch into exercise without warming up first.
a guided tour around the Kennedy Space Center
We’ve found the source of the trouble.
Their children are also at high risk of developing the disease.
There hasn’t been much action around here for months.
They had no maps to assist them.
Our roles as child and guardian had now been reversed.
He’s got no principles at all!
I’m going to explore the possibility of a part-time job.
If no one objects, I would like Mrs Harrison to be present.
Most first-year students live on campus.
The band split two years ago.
This represents a saving of £60,000.
This is the first time the play has been adapted for the big screen (=films).
The government may fail to meet (=achieve) its target of recycling 25% of domestic waste.
Raw sewage had been dumped in the river.
I’ve just renewed the policy (=arranged for it to continue).
The gaps between his visits got longer and longer.
a modest house with a small garden
Could you be more specific about what you’re looking for?
I was trapped into signing a confession.
Nigeria is our principal trading partner in Africa.
Tom took great exception to my remark about Americans.
Children need continuity, security, and a sense of identity.
a high-speed European rail network
I really like the variety the store has to offer.
Like many New Yorkers, he had a romantic image of country life.
Car manufacturers have been accused of flooding the market with cheap cars.
Thunder crashed and boomed outside.
the physical and emotional needs of young adults
We strongly support the peace process.
a growth hormone (=substance in the body that causes you to grow)
The Edinburgh train will depart from platform six.
He turned to crime to support his habit.
an urgent message
Eileen was deep in concentration, and the sudden appearance of her daughter startled her.
What the company has done is perfectly legal.
The president is expected to respect the constitution.
Most hotels here accept payment in dollars.
Pollution poses a threat to fish.
The rain forest may disappear forever.
The scandal destroyed Simmons and ended his political career.
If you divide 21 by 3, you get 7.
A lot of smaller firms did not survive the recession.
The business was just a screen for his drug-dealing activities.
Is it a truly representative sample?
The attack took place under the authority of the UN Security Council.
It’s been a difficult time but, on the positive side, I feel physically fine.
Don’t talk to her. She’s in one of her moods (=used about someone who is often unhappy, angry etc).
visual perception
Business training is a good preparation for any career.
a valuable new computer resource
The judge allowed the evidence.
How could he turn the situation to his advantage?
The Canadian police plan to launch an investigation into the deal.
His early sketches are raw and unpretentious.
Four of my cassettes for your Madonna CD is a fair exchange.
The evening was an unmitigated disaster (=a complete failure).
The company promised to provide credits to customers who had been charged too much.
The Socialist Party was founded to give political expression to the working classes.
Are you ready to make a long-term commitment?
coming soon to a video store near you
the former Soviet Union
Just relax and ease up a little.
The money will be divided equally among the charities.
My father always led a very active life.
the ancient civilizations of Asia
I hope Nicholas behaved himself at the party.
I couldn’t look after him anymore; the strain was too much for me.
It could be argued that a dam might actually increase the risk of flooding.
Spending on information technology has declined.
advanced physics
social and political conflict in the 1930s
a pilot for a new sitcom
This was no time for half measures and compromises.
The shop charges less if the customer pays in cash.
There’s a wealth of talent in English football.
Were you aware that Joe had this problem with his knee?
She’s not going to be very happy about this, I suspect.
a handsome man who drew admiring glances from any female within range
a graduate of Edinburgh University
She’s going to Grimsby on a coach.
Drug treatment should only be used as a last resort.
Poor working conditions lead to demoralized and unproductive employees.
Leeds were awarded a penalty.
women who suffer from post-natal depression (=that sometimes happens after the birth of a baby)
the threat of industrial conflict in the coalfields
a campaign to restore the death penalty
I’ve met him before on two previous occasions.
The field was surrounded by trees.
His question left an opening for me to say exactly what I thought.
Ann stretched across the couch and grabbed the phone.
The new law gives local governments a significant measure of control over their own finances.
the tough outer leaves of the cabbage
After a few days of fever, she began to recover.
I had to compete against 19 other people for the job.
mixed ability classes
There were splits in the party ranks on this issue.
The fort was vulnerable to attack from the north.
He is said to be in a stable condition in hospital.
A man who suffered serious brain damage during an operation is suing the hospital.
Drug addicts are fairly easy to spot.
the first leg of the band’s European tour (=the first part of it)
The party was a grand affair.
Labour is ahead in the polls.
She had saved a modest amount of money.
We’ve got gym this afternoon.
The government imposed a ban on the sale of ivory.
The school gives instruction in first aid.
This dish was created by our chef Jean Richard.
The quality of English wines can now compare with wines from Germany.
Despite the job losses, Parker remained as manager.
The evening was voted a great success.
The offer only applies to flights from London and Manchester.
She argued the case for changing the law.
She is in intensive care, where she remains critical but stable.
Your performance will be judged on a scale of 1 to 10.
You can’t have an intelligent conversation with him.
He sobbed as he recalled the painful memory.
These documents have no legal status in Britain.
The more you save, the more interest you’ll earn.
Three independent studies all arrived at the same conclusion.
Getting fit again has been a long slow process.
It’s highly unlikely that the project will be finished on time.
a region of the brain
The report found that safety equipment had been very poorly maintained.
The motion was passed by a vote of 215 to 84.
It’s been cold, but today’s an exception.
There are plenty of jobs available in the area.
This room may be hired for weddings and other functions.
the election of the London mayor
We grew up in the countryside, surrounded by the beauties of nature.
The cars were being sold at an average price of $11,000.
Many banks are offering financial packages for students.
exercises that expand the chest muscles
Leave the battery on charge all night.
Mark drew me aside and explained the problem.
She shivered in the raw morning air.
The course includes formal lectures.
The accident happened at the junction of Forest Road and Pine Walk.
I didn’t connect the two events in my mind.
Saying that the unemployed ‘don’t want to work’ is a classic case of blaming the victim.
For years the region has been torn apart by armed conflicts.
All the workers were issued with protective clothing.
His most significant political achievement was the abolition of the death penalty.
My keys have disappeared again.
It is more than likely (=almost certain) the votes will have to be counted again.
Jo smokes the odd cigarette.
The film is being screened around the country.
I’ve got so much stuff to do this weekend.
Your brother is a man of many talents.
a thick oak door
His slightly severe expression softened.
Reform now figures high on the agenda.
a session of group therapy
a strain of bitterness in Young’s later work
Bill’s voice was thick and gruff.
My father was furious at first, but eventually we came to an understanding.
high levels of unemployment in the advanced industrial societies
With a little effort you should achieve the desired result.
Her health has been declining progressively for several months.
I submit that the jury has been influenced by the publicity in this case.
a geography project
Children have a strong sense of justice.
The obvious way of reducing pollution is to use cars less.
advice on choosing your options
the importance of active participation by elderly people in the life of the community
the international relief effort
The subjects of this experiment were all men aged 18–35.
the recall of four city council members
The referee gave him the benefit of the doubt.
The leadership cannot be expected to perform miracles (=improve a situation in a way that seems impossible).
The project is funded by Wellcome plc.
a career in journalism
the widening gap between the rich and the poor
This new pay-TV channel sends signals via satellite to cable companies.
Derek has agreed to submit to questioning.
the emotional bond between mother and child
the car production process
Parents sometimes find it difficult to communicate with their teenage children.
There were a few panels missing from the fence.
The car’s performance on mountain roads was impressive.
The military has promised to yield power.
The shelf extends 20 cms from the bookcase.
Colleges and universities have found that it pays to advertise (=advertising brings good results).
He was released from the hospital yesterday.
Congress is continuing to oppose the president’s health care budget.
The house is built on the site of a medieval prison.
Vinyl flooring is available in a wide range of designs.
You will be employed to assist in the development of new equipment.
· We’ll help in any way we can.
I never had the benefit of a university education.
the relief of suffering
The flowers and tears at the funeral were a measure of the people’s love for her.
University zoologists and government vets are combining forces (=working together) to investigate the disease.
The town centre had changed beyond all recognition.
Paul had a burning desire to visit India.
Life on the outside was not as easy as he’d first thought.
The computer industry is the one bright spot in the economy at the moment.
There were crowds of shoppers in the street.
advanced learners of English
cycle routes
a 10-day tour of China
A commander in each county was to have charge of the local militia.
The rise in crime is mainly due to social and economic factors.
My phone bill was massive last month.
The thermometer registered 98.6°.
traffic management
My parents encouraged my interest in science.
the security detail
Native American tribal chiefs
a knife attack
It would have been better to hold the debate during the day.
Dave’s a nice guy when you get to know him.
The Wall used to divide East and West Berlin.
paintings on loan from the Louvre
It was observed that 40 percent of patients had high blood pressure.
They let me have the computer on trial for thirty days.
Statistics is a branch of mathematics.
He drives around in an old car that’s falling apart.
The plants are generally regarded as weeds.
The best cure for a cold is to let nature take its course.
· He has proved a loyal friend.
Business failures in Scotland rose 10% last year.
Alexander tried to get his work recognized by the medical profession.
British Coal is planning to extend its operations in Wales.
The following morning, he was arrested on a charge of burglary.
The solution to this problem is not immediately obvious.
the need to shift more resources towards reducing poverty
They have accepted the idea in principle.
Lost property can be claimed between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m.
a means of stimulating plant growth
Angus injured his leg playing rugby.
a grand country house
She was straining to keep her head above the water.
The decision prompted an outcry among prominent US campaigners.
a crowd of angry protesters
Molly knew she could not afford to make a single slip.
One must recognise that homesickness is natural.
Has the phone been connected yet?
At the risk of sounding stupid, can I ask a question?
You may not like her, but you have to admit that she’s good at her job.
I’ve heard from reliable sources that the company is in trouble.
A recent poll found that 80% of Californians support the governor.
the key witness in the case against the brothers
The building’s design marries a traditional style with modern materials.
a woman who had both beauty and intelligence
He realized that his acting career was over.
He switched sides just days before the election.
a strong women’s rights platform
the complex interaction between mind and body
I lost my balance and fell on my face.
She has not committed a criminal offence (=a crime).
Janet did not dare pursue the matter further.
Full details of the incident were recently revealed.
Customers are getting a raw deal and are rightly angry.
They warned him with veiled threats not to mention anything he had witnessed.
Ireland still have an outside chance of winning.
I might see you tomorrow, but I’ll phone in any event.
My career as an English teacher didn’t last long.
The opening shot of dark, rainy streets sets the mood for the whole film.
I was a bit worried that the argument might become physical.
At that time black people did not yet have the vote.
Vitamins are essential for healthy growth.
a cooler full of sodas
While in hospital, Jeremy took stock of his life.
The conversation had ranged over a variety of topics, from sport to current affairs.
a sweater that’s an old favorite
Whatever can he mean?
The condition of nuclear plants is a matter of great concern.
We’ve been flooded with offers of help.
the traditional split between the state and church
This group of trainees is still under instruction.
I voted for the Labour candidate in the last election.
To Jamie’s credit, he remained calm.
Where’s the light switch?
We are hoping to expand our business, particularly in Europe.
Offered the position of chairman, Smith declined, preferring to keep his current job.
The work will be carried out in phases.
You always look ill at ease in a suit.
A long bridge links Venice and the mainland.
Ron does nothing but criticize and complain all the time.
an essay on Bernard Shaw
The court decided that it was in the girl’s best interests to remain with her grandparents.
Don’t allow your problems to dominate your life.
· His parents did not want them to marry each other.
Some people eat for comfort, to relieve their anxieties.
Even hearing his name was painful to her.
Despite all our efforts we lost the game 1–0.
We were witness to the worst excesses of the military.
The policy document will be issued to all employees.
The project has slipped behind schedule.
a highly successful politician
Should you feed your baby on demand, or stick to a timetable?
an audience of 250 business people
the increased demands placed on police officers
Carrie decided to do a little research on her own account.
A secretary was hired to relieve her of some of the administrative work.
One of the many advantages of living in New York is that you can eat out at almost any time of day.
the relief for the military guard
The bear charged towards her at full speed.
the economics of the scheme
toilet facilities
winds powerful enough to uproot trees
Professor Johnson has indicated his intention to retire at the end of next year.
The painting was sold to a private collector.
A sale is being held to raise funds for the school.
a highly regarded author
Freudian theory has had a great influence on psychology.
facts relative to this issue
I’d like to transfer $500 to my checking account.
Opposition leaders will claim victory if the turnout is lower than 50%.
This time, Radford did not let her chance slip away.
a child with a very active imagination
The doctor says she’s got fibrositis, whatever that is.
a cape made of a soft material
The pipe must be linked to the cold water supply.
The disease was too far advanced to be treated.
a very sensitive performance
Last winter was colder than average.
He insisted that he had not committed any crime.
The bowl is removable for ease of cleaning.
In reality, violent crimes are still extremely rare.
The city is largely cut off from the outside world.
He refused to give evidence at the trial.
the British Chief of Defence Staff
Price is determined through the interaction of demand and supply.
a scheme to provide affordable housing for local people
I shall now turn to the main focus of this essay.
I always felt a bit of a failure at school.
demands that he should resign
the competing claims of scientists
It’s extraordinary that he should make exactly the same mistake again.
Your blood pressure’s well within the normal range.
Volunteers were busy stuffing envelopes.
He did some great stuff in his early films.
The storm outside gave the room a sinister aspect.
They invented a very convincing alibi.
The military government is trying to stop the supply of guns to the rebels.
His enthusiasm communicated itself to the voters.
the British Heart Foundation
His views on the literal truth of the Bible brought him into conflict with other Christian leaders.
My third baby was an accident.
His attorney argued that Cope could not distinguish between right and wrong.
Penney was already being investigated by the police on suspicion of murder.
Extreme surfers will ride waves that reach heights of more than fifty feet.
Travelling alone can lead to a loss of identity.
We conducted a survey of parents in the village.
a multimedia platform
Test scores vary from school to school.
They came across many instances of discrimination.
The paint is too thick.
As it happens, I know someone who might be able to help.
India became independent in 1947.
The discussion ranged widely.
The article represents the millionaire as a simple family man.
She’s becoming a security risk (=someone who may tell important secrets to an enemy).
Unprovoked displays of aggression cannot be tolerated.
He ate some poisonous mushrooms, with fatal consequences.
He loved his wife, and concerned himself with her needs and desires.
Flat lighting is typical of Avedon’s portraits.
Some customers are quite difficult to handle.
grated raw carrots
He retired as a GP last year.
The show is especially popular among young singles.
a white cat with brown spots
City employees cannot contribute to political campaigns.
Fleur encouraged Dana in her ambition to become a model.
Could you just explain again for Mark’s benefit?
Getting there often means a couple of transfers on a bus line.
For young children, getting dressed is a complicated business.
a superb display of African masks
Over the years, teaching methods have changed and become less formal.
The disease spreads by sexual contact between infected animals.
Healthy competition is a force for innovation.
He opened the cardboard box and took out each item.
What Robyn needed was a drink to relax her.
I like the odd glass of wine with my dinner.
The FBI were called in to hunt for the spy.
He later related the whole story to me.
Because of the weather, the parade was a total disaster.
Which team do you support?
Mr Wetherby wrote him a character reference (=a statement about his good qualities).
Sean’s performance at school has greatly improved.
She strained the pasta.
I won’t go, and that’s flat!
The new plane is in its final design stage.
The decision was communicated to our staff late in 1998.
I had to take out a loan to buy my car.
the site of the air crash
Catherine’s parents now approve of her marriage.
The divorce was painful for both of us.
My only crime is that I fell in love with another girl.
the government’s economic policy
After the divorce she resolved never to marry again.
The company has the capacity to build 1,500 trucks a year.
The general principle is that education should be available to all children up to the age of 16.
Violent TV programmes encourage anti-social behaviour.
With winter approaching, many animals are storing food.
the officer in charge of the investigation
We’re looking for someone with experience in administration.
These photographs capture the essence of working-class life at the turn of the century.
An arrangement between the two couples ensured there was always someone to look after the children.
His affairs were none of her concern.
a display of juggling
The audience is not allowed backstage.
Quentin’s mood seems to vary according to the weather.
The president’s advisors are content to remain in the background.
students who run up huge debts
The area has become a prime target for supermarket development.
There are good prospects for growth in the retail sector.
The book I wanted was out on loan.
Connor now owns 302,000 shares and options.
Memories of my time in Paris flooded back.
The domestic market makes up about 75% of their sales.
Ben has shown an interest in learning French.
a career diplomat
The law guarantees equal rights for men and women.
He graduated in physics from Cambridge University.
It was a very complex relationship between two complex people.
He gave me a significant look.
The meaning of the poem has always been a puzzle.
Joe listened, shifting uncomfortably from one foot to another.
You’re so creative! I could never make my own clothes.
Despite their different personalities, they became the best of friends.
Last year’s grain harvest was the biggest ever.
The boys showed a complete lack of respect for authority.
We could ask to stay the night, but I don’t want to impose on them.
At least something positive has come out of the situation.
· The panel have reached a decision.
Jack’s getting through the ironing at a rate of knots!
Bennet was charged with handling stolen goods.
The study investigates the impact of violent TV programming on children.
The object of the game is to improve children’s math skills.
Fertilizer promotes leaf growth.
a TV action hero
Draw a line through the centre of the circle.
The crisis was resolved by negotiations.
the power of positive thinking
Please remain seated until all the lights are on.
a union representative
Angry demonstrators demanded the resignation of two senior officials.
There’s no harm in trying.
A lot of cancers can now be treated successfully.
Press ‘Enter’ and follow the on-screen instructions.
He pleaded guilty to attempted murder.
His jacket’s a medium brown colour.
I carried on with my questions, sensing a weak spot in his story.
an implied threat
an electric blanket (=one with electric wires in it, used for making a bed warm)
Brazil began to attack more in the second half of the match.
Leaving aside the heat, we really enjoyed our holiday.
The company is planning to shed about a quarter of its workforce.
Scoring the paper first makes it easier to fold.
There is every prospect (=a strong possibility) of the weather remaining dry this week.
a crowd of 30,000 spectators
religious instruction
Depression settled over her like a heavy black cloud.
The cut in interest rates is effective from Monday.
An odometer measures the number of miles your car travels.
The company’s welfare officer deals with employees’ personal problems.
Congress voted to increase foreign aid by 10%.
children’s perceptions of the world
We give to the Children’s Fund every Christmas.
unemployment in urban areas
Abortion is a very sensitive issue.
Rewind the video right to the beginning.
Horses were the only means of transport.
a useful technique for generating new ideas
We never travelled abroad when we were kids.
The tiger was finally captured two miles outside the village.
a package of meat
He’s a nice guy, but he’s a bit thick.
She was being measured for her wedding dress.
students of average ability
The Post Office handles nearly 2 billion letters and parcels over the Christmas period.
He seems a perfectly normal little boy.
We always keep some money in reserve, just in case.
The case had all the appearances of a straightforward murder.
Dad can’t afford any more time off work.
I’d like to propose a toast to the bride and groom.
Alarm bells started to ring when he failed to return home.
It was small businesses that led the charge against health care changes.
What was the patient’s psychological state?
a beautiful flower arrangement
the first manned space mission to Mars
There were fears that property prices would collapse.
Weather conditions prevented them from attempting the jump.
After questioning, he admitted to the murder.
There are strict security checks on everyone entering the Opera House.
The force of the explosion blew out all the windows.
She was relieved to see the children had come to no harm.
We need a better system for monitoring what is going on.
He denied reports linking him to Colombian drug dealers.
Diaghilev did his great creative work in France.
the gun-control debate in the US
Buses should have priority over other road users.
Relaxing in a Jacuzzi concentrates the mind wonderfully.
The markets (=all the stock markets in the world) are better prepared for a weakening economy than they were ten years ago.
a two-bedroom flat
people caught in the unemployment trap
a complicated voting system
a child’s wooden puzzle
an organization that supports women facing domestic violence (=violence in a family, especially from a husband to his wife)
a failure in the computer system
Saturday’s game was watched by a capacity crowd (=the maximum number of people that a sports ground etc can hold).
It was ten years since he had quit Russia.
Are there any instructions on how to plant the trees?
the public perception of the government’s performance
You’ll strain your eyes trying to read in this light.
Without work, how can I provide for my children?
One man managed to slip from the club as police arrived.
the magic of Christmas
A person can be recently infected by HIV and have a negative result.
What changes await us in the coming year and beyond?
A close vote is expected.
They were arrested for supplying drugs to street dealers.
It is difficult to appreciate how bad the situation had become.
a witness to a will
The tax on cars is still based on engine capacity.
The shoes range in price from $25 to $100.
The experiments gave positive results in all cases.
a child with a happy, easy-going nature
The main building was demolished, but the library still survives as a museum.
Kevin gave a good account of himself in today’s game.
He decided to leave school for various reasons.
The market for specialist academic books is pretty small.
carved images
the author of the state reforms
Thank you for your letter of application, which we received yesterday.
Swod transferred from MI6 to the Security Service.
Most motorists manage without the benefit of four-wheel drive.
The government promises to restore the economy to full strength.
We are determined to bring the people responsible to justice.
Rousseau’s ‘Essay on the Origin of Languages’
a favorite spot for picnickers
It’s the club secretary that counts the votes.
He had to make a decision on the spot.
How can we gain an understanding of other cultures?
Some of these exercises put too much strain on the back muscles.
a memory device
She applied for a job with the local newspaper.
Prisoners can only leave their cells under certain circumstances.
She can’t handle it when people criticize her.
To confirm my diagnosis I need to do some tests.
low alcohol drinks
I decided to go to the meeting as an expression of support.
Troops fired tear gas and shots to disperse a crowd of 15,000 demonstrators.
discrimination on the basis of sex
I have a few issues with Marc.
As he bent over, the towel round his waist slipped.
Careful planning laid the foundations for the nation’s economic miracle.
Is the engine running smoothly?
There is growing alarm at the increase in crime.
Economic reform is needed.
The agreement will give the UN some muscle to enforce human rights.
I suppose you’re right.
an intelligence agent
In the past five years, there has been a vast improvement in graduation rates.
· He put money into his brother’s business.
I attended the meeting in my capacity as chairman of the safety committee.
Dinner costs $15 but wine is extra.
His great achievement is to make all the players into a united team.
She plans to pursue a career in politics.
the institution of divorce proceedings
Venice is a wonderful city to explore.
She kept insisting on her innocence.
The black vote is astonishingly loyal to the Democratic Party.
Not enough data is available to scientists.